DREAMERS ACTIONS
As I easily get inner contact with myself, I notice distress grabbing for my throat.
It is time to reach out. T o find something that isn’t there. You see the signs, they’re on the road.
 – The Gathering, Analog Park
While in a Slumber/Dream, each Dreamer may perform vari -While in a Slumber/Dream, each Dreamer may perform vari -
ous actions. Most of them can be found:ous actions. Most of them can be found:
  –– on the on the Basic ActionsBasic Actions card. card.
  –– on the Dreamer’s on the Dreamer’s InfluenceInfluence cards. cards.
  –– on the active Dreamer’s on the active Dreamer’s Progress cardsProgress cards..
  –– on the Dreamer’s active on the Dreamer’s active MaskMask..
  –– on the active on the active ItemsItems shared by the Team. shared by the Team.
More actions may be available in the Dreamscape – on More actions may be available in the Dreamscape – on Slum-Slum-
ber/Mapber/Map tiles,  tiles, Dream GateDream Gate tiles,  tiles, EntityEntity tiles, etc. tiles, etc.
The following section describes how to perform actions. The following section describes how to perform actions. 
The various game elements on which these actions can be found The various game elements on which these actions can be found 
are detailed later in this rulebook.are detailed later in this rulebook.
PERFORMING ACTIONS
When you want to perform an action, you first have to pay its When you want to perform an action, you first have to pay its 
cost (and sometimes meet some additional conditions).cost (and sometimes meet some additional conditions).
The cost is always indicated at the beginning of each action. The cost is always indicated at the beginning of each action. 
Usually, it’s an amount of Intent (Usually, it’s an amount of Intent (
 , , 
 , or , or 
 ).).
Intent is a basic resource in the game. It represents how Intent is a basic resource in the game. It represents how 
a Dreamer chooses to interact with the world or the manner in -a Dreamer chooses to interact with the world or the manner in -
which they would solve a particular problem. Intent has 3 colors:which they would solve a particular problem. Intent has 3 colors:
– – Awareness.Awareness. It’s mostly related to conversation, ob- It’s mostly related to conversation, ob-
servation, understanding, and technology.servation, understanding, and technology.
– – Cunning.Cunning. It’s mostly related to movement, clever - It’s mostly related to movement, clever -
ness, avoidance, acting, and deception. ness, avoidance, acting, and deception. 
– – Wrath.Wrath. It’s mostly related to physical effort, fight - It’s mostly related to physical effort, fight -
ing, tenacity, or arguing.ing, tenacity, or arguing.
To use an action, pay for its cost by discarding a combination To use an action, pay for its cost by discarding a combination 
of Influence cards from your hand and/or active Items until you of Influence cards from your hand and/or active Items until you 
reach the required amount of the particular type of Intent. In -reach the required amount of the particular type of Intent. In -
fluence cards are discarded to a personal Influence Discard pile fluence cards are discarded to a personal Influence Discard pile 
while Items used in this way are discarded into the Item Storage. while Items used in this way are discarded into the Item Storage. 
The Intent that a discarded Influence/Item card gives is shown The Intent that a discarded Influence/Item card gives is shown 
in its upper left corner. If a card has multiple Intent colors in its upper left corner. If a card has multiple Intent colors 
to choose from, you must choose which one you want to use when to choose from, you must choose which one you want to use when 
discarding it. If you are discarding a card in this way you may not discarding it. If you are discarding a card in this way you may not 
use its printed action ability. Intent is gained immediately when use its printed action ability. Intent is gained immediately when 
discarding the card and any excess Intent is lost. discarding the card and any excess Intent is lost. 
Example: A cost has a requirement of either Example: A cost has a requirement of either 66  
  or  or 66  
 . You decide . You decide 
to pay to pay 66  
  by discarding one card providing  by discarding one card providing 11  
  and  and 22  
  , one with  , one with 
33  
  and an active item with  and an active item with 22  
  . The excess  . The excess 11  
  is lost and cannot be  is lost and cannot be 
reserved to pay for another action. The reserved to pay for another action. The 11  
  was never gained, since the card  was never gained, since the card 
was used for the was used for the 22  
  
Examples of Intent costs on the Influence / Items cards. Examples of Intent costs on the Influence / Items cards. 
Examples of Intent costs on the Map / Entity tiles / Secret cards. Examples of Intent costs on the Map / Entity tiles / Secret cards. 
– The cost of this action is always – The cost of this action is always 00 Intent. Using it   Intent. Using it  
is free.is free.
– Suffer the shown amount of – Suffer the shown amount of 
  to pay this cost   to pay this cost  
(gain (gain 
  ).  ). 
More about suffering More about suffering 
  – see page 8 – see page 8
– The cost of this action is given in – The cost of this action is given in 
 . To use this . To use this 
action, you must discard the given amount of action, you must discard the given amount of 
 ..
! Map actions can only be carried out if the Dreamer’s ! Map actions can only be carried out if the Dreamer’s 
miniature is in that action’s space (unless it is an miniature is in that action’s space (unless it is an AssaultAssault//
ContactContact action – see pg 10). action – see pg 10).
BASIC ACTIONS CARD
Each Dreamer has their own Basic Actions card that lists Each Dreamer has their own Basic Actions card that lists 
the actions discussed before as well as several other ones:the actions discussed before as well as several other ones:
MoveMove – Spend any number of  – Spend any number of 
  to Move the same number  to Move the same number 
of spaces.of spaces.
More about Movement – see Movement on page 11.More about Movement – see Movement on page 11.
EffortEffort – Once a turn, lose  – Once a turn, lose XX hours to move  hours to move XX spaces (see  spaces (see 
THE CLOCKTHE CLOCK, pg 13)., pg 13).
Peek a CardPeek a Card  – Discard  – Discard 11 card to take a 5-second peek  card to take a 5-second peek 
at 1 Secret card/tile from the current Dream with an Influence/at 1 Secret card/tile from the current Dream with an Influence/
Item/Flaw/Fate or Slumber back.Item/Flaw/Fate or Slumber back.
Gain a Shining GemGain a Shining Gem  – Discard  – Discard 33 Influence cards from  Influence cards from 
your hand to gain a your hand to gain a 
 ..
Use A Shining GemUse A Shining Gem - Discard 1 - Discard 1
  to reroll any roll (of any  to reroll any roll (of any 
die, rolled by any player).die, rolled by any player).
Remove MorphingsRemove Morphings – Discard  – Discard 11 Key or  Key or 11  
  to discard  to discard 
11 Morphing (see  Morphing (see MORPHINGSMORPHINGS, pg 13) from an Entity within range , pg 13) from an Entity within range 11. . 
Boosting Your IntentBoosting Your Intent – See the description on page 11.  – See the description on page 11. 
This is a reminder of the consequences when you rollThis is a reminder of the consequences when you roll  
   (the worst (the worst 
outcome).outcome).
Dreamer’s DeathDreamer’s Death – It’s a reminder of what happens when  – It’s a reminder of what happens when 
Dreamers exceed their Dreamers exceed their 
  limit. Resolve  limit. Resolve Secret Card II-42 I Secret Card II-42 I 
(Death) Wisdom Card (Death) Wisdom Card (see (see Distress and DyingDistress and Dying, pg 8)., pg 8).
INFLUENCE CARDS
I knew who I was this morning,  
but I’ve changed a few times since then.
 – Lewis Carroll, Alice in Wonderland
IntentIntent
 Ether cost Ether cost 
of buying this cardof buying this card
Additional Additional 
requirementrequirement
Action/effectAction/effect
Action/effect Action/effect 
costcost
Influence cardsInfluence cards represent all the abilities and powers in the  represent all the abilities and powers in the 
Dreamers’ physical and psychological arsenals. At the start of Dreamers’ physical and psychological arsenals. At the start of 
the campaign, each Dreamer only has access to their the campaign, each Dreamer only has access to their 2222  starting starting 
Influence cardsInfluence cards. However, this deck will improve and evolve as . However, this deck will improve and evolve as 
they gain new cards by visiting Dreams or buying them from the they gain new cards by visiting Dreams or buying them from the 
Influence Market.Influence Market.
Each Dreamer places their deck on the left side of their Dream-Each Dreamer places their deck on the left side of their Dream-
er board and they will draw cards from this deck during the game. er board and they will draw cards from this deck during the game. 
Played and discarded cards are placed face-up in the Discard pile, Played and discarded cards are placed face-up in the Discard pile, 
on the right side of the Dreamer’s Board.on the right side of the Dreamer’s Board.
Except for Except for Progress cardsProgress cards (see next section), you may only  (see next section), you may only 
play Influence cards from your hand either for their Intent or for play Influence cards from your hand either for their Intent or for 
their action/effect. Unless specified otherwise, you can only play their action/effect. Unless specified otherwise, you can only play 
Influence cards during the Influence cards during the Dreamers PhaseDreamers Phase. . 
The cards bearing the The cards bearing the RAPIDRAPID  
   icon are an exception to this icon are an exception to this 
rule. They can be played at any time during your action (even in the rule. They can be played at any time during your action (even in the 
middle of  another action), other Dreamers rounds or during the middle of  another action), other Dreamers rounds or during the 
Dreamscape Phase (making sure to pay their costs before doing so).Dreamscape Phase (making sure to pay their costs before doing so).
Example: You need to pay Example: You need to pay 88  
   for an action. You start paying for an action. You start paying 44  
   
but do not have enough to finish it. You decide to play “but do not have enough to finish it. You decide to play “ Find the PatternFind the Pattern” ” 
in the middle of your action – its in the middle of your action – its 
  effect allows you to immediately Seal  effect allows you to immediately Seal 
it and draw it and draw 33 additional cards. Luckily two of them have 4  additional cards. Luckily two of them have 4 
   and you use and you use 
those to finish paying for the action.those to finish paying for the action.
Some cards will have additional requirements before you can Some cards will have additional requirements before you can 
use their Actions/effect (e.g.: being on a space with specific Ter -use their Actions/effect (e.g.: being on a space with specific Ter -
rain symbol).rain symbol).
99