SAVING YOUR GAME
After resolving any Location effects on the Dreamworld Map, you may pause and save your campaign. In order to not lose the After resolving any Location effects on the Dreamworld Map, you may pause and save your campaign. In order to not lose the 
  you  you 
have collected you may resolve a Buying Influence cards step once. Afterward, if any Dreamer has have collected you may resolve a Buying Influence cards step once. Afterward, if any Dreamer has 
  remaining they discard all their  remaining they discard all their 
remaining remaining 
  and gain  and gain 11 Secret Card II-41 R which allows you to gain 1  Secret Card II-41 R which allows you to gain 1 
  when you setup again for the next game.  when you setup again for the next game. 
Carry out Steps 1-3 of the Awakening Wisdom card:Carry out Steps 1-3 of the Awakening Wisdom card:
1] 1] Discard all Influence cards (from deck, hand and Progress zone)Discard all Influence cards (from deck, hand and Progress zone)
2] 2] Cure all Cure all 
  and Unseal all cards and Unseal all cards
3] 3] Discard all Keys and Discard all Keys and 
Then, place the rest of the cards and tiles in their corresponding slots in the box (using the proper Dividers):Then, place the rest of the cards and tiles in their corresponding slots in the box (using the proper Dividers):
  –– Each Dreamer’s deck with their Basic Action cards and Mask cards (II-41 S). Each Dreamer’s deck with their Basic Action cards and Mask cards (II-41 S). 
  –– All Team cards from the Storage (e.g.: note cards)All Team cards from the Storage (e.g.: note cards)
  –– the Turn deckthe Turn deck
  –– the Flaws deckthe Flaws deck
  –– the Slumber Map deckthe Slumber Map deck
  –– the Fate deckthe Fate deck
  –– the Slumber deckthe Slumber deck
  –– the Seasons deck the Seasons deck 
  –– keep the active Season card at the topkeep the active Season card at the top
  –– Dream Gate tiles should be placed in the special envelopeDream Gate tiles should be placed in the special envelope
  –– Sign tokens that are still availableSign tokens that are still available
  –– Remaining components should be separated and stored in bagsRemaining components should be separated and stored in bags
If you are within a Dream when you decide to do this you must treat it as a “If you are within a Dream when you decide to do this you must treat it as a “Death of a DreamerDeath of a Dreamer” (Secret card II-42 I).” (Secret card II-42 I).
ADDING A NEW DREAMER
Each game of Etherfields is self-contained enough to allow you to play each session with a different number of Dreamers.Each game of Etherfields is self-contained enough to allow you to play each session with a different number of Dreamers.
If the last session was played with fewer than four Dreamers and a new player wants to join the game, all they have to do is pick an un-If the last session was played with fewer than four Dreamers and a new player wants to join the game, all they have to do is pick an un-
used Dreamer archetype and join the adventure. If it’s the other way around, just play without the absentees. They’ll still be able to join used Dreamer archetype and join the adventure. If it’s the other way around, just play without the absentees. They’ll still be able to join 
the Team during the next session. If a player cannot participate in the session, their Dreamer can be handled by a new player (provided the Team during the next session. If a player cannot participate in the session, their Dreamer can be handled by a new player (provided 
the original player agrees).the original player agrees).
VARIANTS
The Thorn KnightThe Thorn Knight: If you have the Thorn Knight add-on, its Wisdom card is active from the start of the game. It contains all rules : If you have the Thorn Knight add-on, its Wisdom card is active from the start of the game. It contains all rules 
needed to use it in your games.needed to use it in your games.
Classic Card RulesClassic Card Rules:  Once per Dream, the Team may use a classic deck of poker cards to influence one of their chosen effects :  Once per Dream, the Team may use a classic deck of poker cards to influence one of their chosen effects 
related to related to MorphingsMorphings, , 
  ,  , 
 , , HoursHours or  or Sealed CardsSealed Cards. Shuffle and draw . Shuffle and draw 33 cards at random – these are the  cards at random – these are the Luck cardsLuck cards. With these . With these 
decide whether you want to back out or try your Luck. If you do, draw decide whether you want to back out or try your Luck. If you do, draw 33 more cards at random – these are the  more cards at random – these are the Drawback cardsDrawback cards. . 
If the sum* of the If the sum* of the Luck cardsLuck cards is higher than the sum of the  is higher than the sum of the Drawback cardsDrawback cards resolve the positive effects, otherwise resolve the nega- resolve the positive effects, otherwise resolve the nega-
tive one instead depending on which effect you tried to influence.tive one instead depending on which effect you tried to influence.
* A Jack counts as 11, a Queen as 12, a King as 13, an Ace as 14, and a Joker as 15.* A Jack counts as 11, a Queen as 12, a King as 13, an Ace as 14, and a Joker as 15.
POSITIVE EFFECTPOSITIVE EFFECT NEGATIVE EFFECTNEGATIVE EFFECT
MORPHINGSMORPHINGS Discard all Morphings on an Entity.Discard all Morphings on an Entity. Add Add 22 Morphings on an Entity. Morphings on an Entity.
Gain all available Gain all available 
   
(distribute between Dreamers)(distribute between Dreamers) Dreamers discard ALL Dreamers discard ALL 
HOURSHOURS Add Add 22 Hours Hours Lose all HoursLose all Hours
Any 1 Dreamer cures Any 1 Dreamer cures 22  
 Any 1 Dreamer suffers Any 1 Dreamer suffers 11  
SEALING CARDSSEALING CARDS Each Dreamer Unseals Each Dreamer Unseals 55 cards cards  Each Dreamer Seals  Each Dreamer Seals 55 cards. cards.
STRUCTURED ROUNDS
Alternatively if you would like a more structured turn order, you Alternatively if you would like a more structured turn order, you 
may start with the First Player and go clockwise with each Dreamer may start with the First Player and go clockwise with each Dreamer 
performing a round involving one Dream action (Map Action, Dream performing a round involving one Dream action (Map Action, Dream 
or Entity tile interaction) and as many other actions (e.g.: Movement, or Entity tile interaction) and as many other actions (e.g.: Movement, 
Basic actions, actions from Influence/Item cards) and activities (plac-Basic actions, actions from Influence/Item cards) and activities (plac-
ing Progress cards, gaining Shining Gems, etc.) as they want. You may ing Progress cards, gaining Shining Gems, etc.) as they want. You may 
always pass the current round and act again in another round if you always pass the current round and act again in another round if you 
wish. Each Dreamer can perform as many rounds as they wish until wish. Each Dreamer can perform as many rounds as they wish until 
everyone runs out of cards to play or passes in a row. The First Player everyone runs out of cards to play or passes in a row. The First Player 
receives the receives the First Player MarkerFirst Player Marker and is also responsible for resolv- and is also responsible for resolv-
ing any indecision or conflict between the players. This marker will ing any indecision or conflict between the players. This marker will 
pass clockwise to the next player at the start of each new Turn.pass clockwise to the next player at the start of each new Turn.
Note cards StorageNote cards Storage
To mark gained Note cards shared by the Team. To mark gained Note cards shared by the Team. 
Note cards will appear during the campaign.Note cards will appear during the campaign.
Removed cardsRemoved cards
To mark which cards are removed  To mark which cards are removed  
from the game.from the game.
Current DreamCurrent Dream
To mark the current Dream’s position  To mark the current Dream’s position  
in the Secret cards so that you can  in the Secret cards so that you can  easily put it back.easily put it back.
Influence MarketInfluence Market
Item MarketItem Market
Turn deckTurn deck
Fate deckFate deck
Flaw deckFlaw deck
Season deckSeason deck
The Season deck will appear during the campaign.The Season deck will appear during the campaign.
Large Dividers:Large Dividers:
Removed tilesRemoved tiles
To mark which tiles are removed To mark which tiles are removed 
from the game.from the game.
Slumber deckSlumber deck
 Slumber deck will appear during the campaign. Slumber deck will appear during the campaign.
Slumber Map tilesSlumber Map tiles
Current DreamCurrent Dream
To mark the current Dream’s position To mark the current Dream’s position 
in the Secret tiles so that you can  easily put it back.in the Secret tiles so that you can  easily put it back.