FAQ/ CLARIFICATIONS
INFLUENCE CARDSINFLUENCE CARDS
  –– The actions/effects on Influence cards occur simultaneous-The actions/effects on Influence cards occur simultaneous-
ly for the majority of instances. The only exception is when there ly for the majority of instances. The only exception is when there 
are specified timings or stepwise order.are specified timings or stepwise order.
WORLD MAPWORLD MAP
  –– “Relocate Team Marker” – You must Relocate to a different “Relocate Team Marker” – You must Relocate to a different 
location.location.
  –– All of the “Once per Turn” actions / effects can be used only All of the “Once per Turn” actions / effects can be used only 
once during each travel between Slumbers/Dreams on the Dream-once during each travel between Slumbers/Dreams on the Dream-
world Map.world Map.
ENTITYENTITY
  –– An Entity is considered to be every Entity token/miniature An Entity is considered to be every Entity token/miniature 
with a specific name and all shapeshifters. Miniatures placed by with a specific name and all shapeshifters. Miniatures placed by 
the Dreamers (from Influence cards, Note cards) are the Dreamers (from Influence cards, Note cards) are NOTNOT consid- consid-
ered to be Entities. unless stated otherwise by the game.ered to be Entities. unless stated otherwise by the game.
  –– If you are in the range of multiple tokens/minis of the same If you are in the range of multiple tokens/minis of the same 
Entity, you are affected by it only once (unless their effects scale Entity, you are affected by it only once (unless their effects scale 
based on their numbers). based on their numbers). 
  –– The limit for Entities using Creature Shapeshifter minia -The limit for Entities using Creature Shapeshifter minia -
tures or Human Shapeshifter miniatures is tures or Human Shapeshifter miniatures is 44 – because there are  – because there are 
only only 44 Creature Shapeshifter miniatures and  Creature Shapeshifter miniatures and 44 Human Shape- Human Shape-
shifter miniatures available. The Entity tile card will tell you shifter miniatures available. The Entity tile card will tell you 
which to use.which to use.
  –– When an Entity is equidistant to two or more eligible Dream-When an Entity is equidistant to two or more eligible Dream-
ers and has to move towards them, the Dreamers pick the outcome.ers and has to move towards them, the Dreamers pick the outcome.
TURN CARDTURN CARD
If the game asks you to resolve all effects of the current Turn If the game asks you to resolve all effects of the current Turn 
card during the Dreamers Phase, don’t discard the current Turn card during the Dreamers Phase, don’t discard the current Turn 
card afterward.card afterward.
DECK MANAGEMENTDECK MANAGEMENT
Only reshuffle decks when a game component/element in -Only reshuffle decks when a game component/element in -
structs you to do so.structs you to do so.
SOLO PLAYSOLO PLAY
When playing solo, you may find some cards less suited than When playing solo, you may find some cards less suited than 
others for solo play. You may remove such a card from the game others for solo play. You may remove such a card from the game 
and draw another one. Don’t do this too often, as you may dis-and draw another one. Don’t do this too often, as you may dis-
cover that you removed a  really good card but didn’t notice its cover that you removed a  really good card but didn’t notice its 
usefulness before.usefulness before.
FIRST MEMORIES CARDSFIRST MEMORIES CARDS
These cards are disposable. After the condition is met and the These cards are disposable. After the condition is met and the 
card’s effect is resolved, remove it from the game.card’s effect is resolved, remove it from the game.
SPOILERS AND HINTS
You will find errata, hints and walkthroughs for the Dreams and riddles that trouble you at  You will find errata, hints and walkthroughs for the Dreams and riddles that trouble you at  
HTTP:/ /WWW.ETHERFIELDS-SECRETS.COM/FORUMHTTP:/ /WWW.ETHERFIELDS-SECRETS.COM/FORUM
You may also find a community based app, that helps with introducing to the game, atYou may also find a community based app, that helps with introducing to the game, at
HTTP:/ /WWW.AWAKENREALMS.COM/ETHERFIELDSAPP/HTTP:/ /WWW.AWAKENREALMS.COM/ETHERFIELDSAPP/
COMPANIONS 
Companions are friendly beings that Dreamers can summon Companions are friendly beings that Dreamers can summon 
during Slumber/Dream.during Slumber/Dream.
Companions for purpose of rules are not Dreamers nor En -Companions for purpose of rules are not Dreamers nor En -
tities. They still count to the miniature/token space limit. They tities. They still count to the miniature/token space limit. They 
are ignored by all Actions and/or effects caused by Dreamers, are ignored by all Actions and/or effects caused by Dreamers, 
Dreams, or Entities unless their Progress/Note card says other -Dreams, or Entities unless their Progress/Note card says other -
wise. wise. 
COMPANION LIST:COMPANION LIST:
  –– LockerLocker
  –– GhostGhost
  –– PenguinPenguin
  –– Box KnightBox Knight
  –– EtherwolfEtherwolf
  –– RiddlerRiddler
  –– Flying CatFlying Cat
1717