INFLUENCE DECK CARD LIMITS
At specific moments of the game (during game setup At specific moments of the game (during game setup 
or or  AwakeningAwakening), you’ll have the opportunity to add or re-), you’ll have the opportunity to add or re-
move cards from your Influence deck. Be sure to check the move cards from your Influence deck. Be sure to check the 
number of cards in your deck during this step to ensure number of cards in your deck during this step to ensure 
you’re within the deck limit of you’re within the deck limit of 2020--4040 cards. During this step: cards. During this step:
  –– You must have a minimum of You must have a minimum of 2020 cards in your Influence  cards in your Influence 
deck (if, for any reason, you have less than 20 cards available, deck (if, for any reason, you have less than 20 cards available, 
you must add all your available cards to your deck).you must add all your available cards to your deck).
  –– You can have a  maximum of You can have a  maximum of 4040 cards in your Influ - cards in your Influ -
ence deck. Excess cards are placed back in the box, in the ence deck. Excess cards are placed back in the box, in the 
slot dedicated to your Dreamer (with your Divider). These slot dedicated to your Dreamer (with your Divider). These 
unused cards, cannot be used in the game until the next unused cards, cannot be used in the game until the next 
deckbuilding step.deckbuilding step.
  –– During the deckbuilding step, you must add all Flaw During the deckbuilding step, you must add all Flaw 
cards in your possession to your Influence deck (they do not cards in your possession to your Influence deck (they do not 
count toward the count toward the 2020--4040 limit). limit).
Note: If the number of cards in your Influence deck exceeds Note: If the number of cards in your Influence deck exceeds 4040 or  or 
drops under drops under 2020 during the game, nothing happens. The card limit is  during the game, nothing happens. The card limit is 
only checked during the deckbuilding step.only checked during the deckbuilding step.
20-40
Additionally, each individual starting Influence deck has its Additionally, each individual starting Influence deck has its 
own special feature – a own special feature – a character specific actioncharacter specific action – printed on  – printed on 
the back of each card. Dreamers may perform this action when the back of each card. Dreamers may perform this action when 
the card is on the top of their deck. As the campaign proceeds, the the card is on the top of their deck. As the campaign proceeds, the 
more cards a Dreamer adds to their deck, the less this action will more cards a Dreamer adds to their deck, the less this action will 
be available as they gradually lose their original identity.be available as they gradually lose their original identity.
Gained Influence cards (from Dreams, from the Influence Mar-Gained Influence cards (from Dreams, from the Influence Mar-
ket) are placed ket) are placed face-upface-up on top of the Dreamer’s  on top of the Dreamer’s Discard PileDiscard Pile..
PROGRESS INFLUENCE CARDS
“Dreams grow if you grow.”  – Zig Ziglar
IntentIntent
 Progress Progress 
placement costplacement cost
Action/effect Action/effect 
costcost
Additional Additional 
requirementrequirement
Action/effectAction/effect
Ether cost Ether cost 
of buying this cardof buying this card
Progress cardsProgress cards are special types of Influence cards that pro- are special types of Influence cards that pro-
vide persistent abilities to your Dreamers when they are played. vide persistent abilities to your Dreamers when they are played. 
They can be used normally for Intent when discarded from your They can be used normally for Intent when discarded from your 
hand but the actions/effects on them cannot be used until they are hand but the actions/effects on them cannot be used until they are 
placed into your placed into your Progress ZoneProgress Zone (beneath your Dreamer board)  (beneath your Dreamer board) 
by by paying the listed cost on the top of the cardpaying the listed cost on the top of the card . From then . From then 
on, you may use any action or effect on this card. Once played, an on, you may use any action or effect on this card. Once played, an 
active Progress card cannot be discarded to use as Intent. active Progress card cannot be discarded to use as Intent. 
Each Dreamer may have a  maximum of Each Dreamer may have a  maximum of 44 Progress cards Progress cards   
in their Progress zone but some Masks (see in their Progress zone but some Masks (see MASKSMASKS, pg 13) and , pg 13) and 
other cards may modify this. If you want to place a new Progress other cards may modify this. If you want to place a new Progress 
card when you have already reached your limit, you must first card when you have already reached your limit, you must first 
discard one of your placed Progress cards (active or flipped) be-discard one of your placed Progress cards (active or flipped) be-
fore you can place the new one. You cannot fore you can place the new one. You cannot voluntarilyvoluntarily discard  discard 
a placed Progress card otherwise.a placed Progress card otherwise.
Flipping Progress CardsFlipping Progress Cards – Being told to flip a progress  – Being told to flip a progress 
card causes you to turn it face-down. The card’s action can no card causes you to turn it face-down. The card’s action can no 
longer be used until it is unflipped but the card still counts to-longer be used until it is unflipped but the card still counts to-
ward your placed Progress cards limit. ward your placed Progress cards limit. 
Some rules refer to Some rules refer to 
 //
 //
  icons – this refers to the num- icons – this refers to the num-
ber of your ber of your active Progress cards of the corresponding col-active Progress cards of the corresponding col-
oror (flipped cards  (flipped cards do notdo not count). count).
Unless otherwise specified Progress cards are not discarded Unless otherwise specified Progress cards are not discarded 
when used. Placed Progress cards remain in your Progress zone when used. Placed Progress cards remain in your Progress zone 
until a game effect forces you to discard them (Dreamer’s death, until a game effect forces you to discard them (Dreamer’s death, 
Awakening, etc.).Awakening, etc.).
You may have two identical active Progress cards, but most You may have two identical active Progress cards, but most 
of them will not duplicate their own effect.of them will not duplicate their own effect.
INFLUENCE MARKET  
 & BUYING NEW INFLUENCE CARDS
The Influence Market is a pool of unacquired Influence cards The Influence Market is a pool of unacquired Influence cards 
available to the Dreamers when they go Shopping on the Dream available to the Dreamers when they go Shopping on the Dream 
World map (pg 14). These mechanics will be explained as the game World map (pg 14). These mechanics will be explained as the game 
progresses. They can be left in the game box (you should not look progresses. They can be left in the game box (you should not look 
at them) and taken out only when required. The Influence Market at them) and taken out only when required. The Influence Market 
will change during the campaign with cards being added from will change during the campaign with cards being added from 
Dreams.Dreams.
When you are instructed to “When you are instructed to “ Buy Influence CardsBuy Influence Cards ” , each ” , each 
Dreamer may draw the Dreamer may draw the top 3 cards of the Influence Markettop 3 cards of the Influence Market   
and buy any number of them with their available and buy any number of them with their available 
 , placing , placing 
them face-up on top of your Discard Pile. Any remaining cards them face-up on top of your Discard Pile. Any remaining cards 
are returned to the bottom of the Market. The are returned to the bottom of the Market. The 
  cost of each  cost of each 
Influence card in the Influence Market is indicated in its upper Influence card in the Influence Market is indicated in its upper 
right corner.right corner.
You mainly gain You mainly gain 
  during Slumbers, as a  Loot for victory  during Slumbers, as a  Loot for victory 
and also through completing Dreams. and also through completing Dreams. 
When the game asks you to When the game asks you to RETURNRETURN a card to the Influence  a card to the Influence 
Market, remove this card from your deck and put it at the bottom Market, remove this card from your deck and put it at the bottom 
of the Influence Market – it doesn’t matter if this card was from of the Influence Market – it doesn’t matter if this card was from 
your starting deck, bought from the Influence Market or gained your starting deck, bought from the Influence Market or gained 
in a Dream.in a Dream.
During the Buying cards step, if you draw a starting card of an-During the Buying cards step, if you draw a starting card of an-
other Dreamer, you may buy this card – and start using the spe-other Dreamer, you may buy this card – and start using the spe-
cial action on its back, even though you are not that Dreamer.cial action on its back, even though you are not that Dreamer.
At the start of the game the Influence Market consists of all At the start of the game the Influence Market consists of all 
Influence cards with no secret code number on their back.Influence cards with no secret code number on their back.
At the start of the game the Items Market is emptyAt the start of the game the Items Market is empty
GRADUAL ACTIONS
Gradual actions are actions that scale with the number Gradual actions are actions that scale with the number 
of Dreamers and they are marked by a of Dreamers and they are marked by a 
  icon that appears after  icon that appears after 
the basic cost to indicate how many times that cost must be paid the basic cost to indicate how many times that cost must be paid 
to perform it. These may be paid in several steps over several to perform it. These may be paid in several steps over several 
Turns (i.e.: gradually). Each time the basic cost is paid, an Turns (i.e.: gradually). Each time the basic cost is paid, an Intent Intent 
MarkerMarker can be used to show that it has been paid. Place it near  can be used to show that it has been paid. Place it near 
the Action.the Action.
Example: There are 3 Dreamers in the game, and you want to perform Example: There are 3 Dreamers in the game, and you want to perform 
a gradual action labelled as a gradual action labelled as 33  
 . One Dreamer decides to spend . One Dreamer decides to spend 66  
   
to place to place 22 Intent markers on this action. On a later turn (or even during the  Intent markers on this action. On a later turn (or even during the 
same turn) another Dreamer will only need to pay same turn) another Dreamer will only need to pay 33  
   to perform that action.to perform that action.
Note: Some gradual actions have a cost given in two Intent colors. When Note: Some gradual actions have a cost given in two Intent colors. When 
paying for such an action, you must choose an Intent color and pay the full paying for such an action, you must choose an Intent color and pay the full 
cost using that color. eg. if there are 4 Dreamers in play, cost using that color. eg. if there are 4 Dreamers in play, 33  
 / / 33  
   
means either means either 1212  
   or or 1212  
 , not a combination of both., not a combination of both.
Return all Intent markers to the pool after the action is per -Return all Intent markers to the pool after the action is per -
formed. Intent markers are limited and if you need one of a spe-formed. Intent markers are limited and if you need one of a spe-
cific color but there aren’t enough left, you may take an Intent cific color but there aren’t enough left, you may take an Intent 
marker from another action.marker from another action.
Any Intent marker placed on an action is considered to be Any Intent marker placed on an action is considered to be 
yours, even if it was placed by another Dreamer.yours, even if it was placed by another Dreamer.
When there are several miniatures of a  given type of Entity When there are several miniatures of a  given type of Entity 
in play, Intent markers placed on the Entity tile are not assigned in play, Intent markers placed on the Entity tile are not assigned 
to any of the miniatures. They are only assigned (and then dis-to any of the miniatures. They are only assigned (and then dis-
carded) to a specific miniature when the gradual action is actually carded) to a specific miniature when the gradual action is actually 
performed.performed.
Note: the notation “Note: the notation “
 xX” just means a higher action cost, not a gradual xX” just means a higher action cost, not a gradual 
action that you may pay in steps. For example, with 3 Dreamers in play,  action that you may pay in steps. For example, with 3 Dreamers in play,  
x2x2
 , means you must pay , means you must pay 66
  at once. at once.
ASSAULT / CONTACT ACTIONS
Examples of Examples of AssaultAssault//ContactContact actions.  actions. 
AssaultAssault//ContactContact  actions  – marked specifically with "actions  – marked specifically with " AssaultAssault" " 
or "or "ContactContact" keywords – are used the same way as normal actions " keywords – are used the same way as normal actions 
with a few exceptions:with a few exceptions:
Not every Not every 
   action is a Contact action. Not every action is a Contact action. Not every 
   action is an As-action is an As-
sault action.sault action.
  –– Unlike map actions which require you to be in the action’s Unlike map actions which require you to be in the action’s 
space to use, space to use, AssaultAssault//ContactContact actions can be performed from the  actions can be performed from the 
base base AssaultAssault//ContactContact range of  range of 11 space away. This can be modified  space away. This can be modified 
by some Influence or Item cards.by some Influence or Item cards.
  –– You can bold the effect of an You can bold the effect of an AssaultAssault//ContactContact action by pay- action by pay-
ing its cost multiple times.ing its cost multiple times.
Example: You perform an Assault action with a  cost of Example: You perform an Assault action with a  cost of 33  
 . You can . You can 
spend spend 99  
   at once to apply the effect of this action three times.at once to apply the effect of this action three times.
  –– If you pay the cost of an action multiple times, you can If you pay the cost of an action multiple times, you can 
choose a different target for each effect.choose a different target for each effect.
Example: You perform a Contact action with a cost of Example: You perform a Contact action with a cost of 33  
 , and decide , and decide 
to pay to pay 99  
 . There are 2 Entities in range that can be targeted by the action. . There are 2 Entities in range that can be targeted by the action. 
You can decide to target the first entity twice, and the second Entity once.You can decide to target the first entity twice, and the second Entity once.
1010