GAME OVERVIEW
Etherfields is a narrative, cooperative deckbuilding campaign Etherfields is a narrative, cooperative deckbuilding campaign 
game for 1-4 players (or 5 with the 5th player addon) set in a fan-game for 1-4 players (or 5 with the 5th player addon) set in a fan-
tastical world where a series of unique surreal dreamscapes await tastical world where a series of unique surreal dreamscapes await 
exploration.exploration.
The players take on the role of Dreamers and, throughout the The players take on the role of Dreamers and, throughout the 
course of the campaign, they discover their forgotten pasts and course of the campaign, they discover their forgotten pasts and 
desperate missions. desperate missions. 
Etherfields is an evolving game and as such, some of the rules Etherfields is an evolving game and as such, some of the rules 
will not be found within this rulebook – these will be explained will not be found within this rulebook – these will be explained 
as they are introduced gradually. as they are introduced gradually. 
If this is your first time playing the game, choose a Dreamer If this is your first time playing the game, choose a Dreamer 
character archetype below. Otherwise, go to GAME SETUP.character archetype below. Otherwise, go to GAME SETUP.
STARTING THE CAMPAIGN 
 CHOOSING YOUR DREAMER
Each player chooses one of the Dreamers below to play and -Each player chooses one of the Dreamers below to play and -
takes the Dreamer’s corresponding takes the Dreamer’s corresponding Influence DeckInfluence Deck of  of 2222 cards  cards 
(which they then shuffle) alongside an additional (which they then shuffle) alongside an additional Basic Action Basic Action 
cardcard, , miniatureminiature and  and Dreamer BoardDreamer Board..
Don’t worry too much about your choice of Dreamers for now – later on Don’t worry too much about your choice of Dreamers for now – later on 
you’ll be able to switch them so just go with whichever one appeals to you.you’ll be able to switch them so just go with whichever one appeals to you.
The GamblerThe Gambler is a good choice if you like to  is a good choice if you like to 
play with fate and roll dice. The Gambler often play with fate and roll dice. The Gambler often 
relies on luck, but she can also manipulate it. relies on luck, but she can also manipulate it. 
She likes to deceive others but considers it She likes to deceive others but considers it 
a game, not something serious. She has a prob-a game, not something serious. She has a prob-
lem with understanding the gravity of the situ-lem with understanding the gravity of the situ-
ation, and, when she does, she pretends that ation, and, when she does, she pretends that 
there is no problem at all.there is no problem at all.
The SpecialistThe Specialist is an expert engineer and  is an expert engineer and 
craftsman. He relies on using Progress cards, craftsman. He relies on using Progress cards, 
which provide constant bonuses during the which provide constant bonuses during the 
game and slowly builds a  powerful game en -game and slowly builds a  powerful game en -
gine. He chooses peaceful discourses and in-gine. He chooses peaceful discourses and in-
depth analysis over fast or brutal solutions. He depth analysis over fast or brutal solutions. He 
has gathered more knowledge than the rest has gathered more knowledge than the rest 
of the Dreamers altogether. He is a leader.of the Dreamers altogether. He is a leader.
The Tough GuyThe Tough Guy is tenacious and resilient.  is tenacious and resilient. 
He prefers simple actions – mostly using brute He prefers simple actions – mostly using brute 
force. He doesn’t like prattling and thinking force. He doesn’t like prattling and thinking 
a  problem over and over, but you may rely a  problem over and over, but you may rely 
on him when you’re in trouble. He won’t hesi-on him when you’re in trouble. He won’t hesi-
tate to go as far as sacrificing himself. He may tate to go as far as sacrificing himself. He may 
look grim, but he’s rather cool and composed, look grim, but he’s rather cool and composed, 
until something unleashes his fury.until something unleashes his fury.
The Free SpiritThe Free Spirit  likes to bend the rules.  likes to bend the rules. 
Even the basic rules of the game! She can’t ac-Even the basic rules of the game! She can’t ac-
cept any barriers or laws, and she navigates cept any barriers or laws, and she navigates 
her own path. She identifies with her soul and her own path. She identifies with her soul and 
consciousness, she treats her physical body as consciousness, she treats her physical body as 
something less important. Sometimes, she something less important. Sometimes, she 
acts rather childish.acts rather childish.
GAME SETUP
“Begin at the beginning,” the King said, very gravely, “and go on till you come to the end:  
then stop.”
 – Lewis Carroll, Alice in Wonderland
If this is the first time you are playing the game, only carry out the highlighted sections of the Game Setup. If this is the first time you are playing the game, only carry out the highlighted sections of the Game Setup. Otherwise, complete the Otherwise, complete the 
entire Setup for each subsequent game.entire Setup for each subsequent game.
1] 1] Place the game board down. Place the game board down. AA
2] 2] Storage: Place all of your owner Note cards and Items here  Storage: Place all of your owner Note cards and Items here  BB . . 
Note: if starting a campaign, you will not own any of these yet.Note: if starting a campaign, you will not own any of these yet.
3] 3] Dreamscape Board space: Place the Dreamscape Board space: Place the 22  Setup Slumber Map tilesSetup Slumber Map tiles here  here CC . If this is your first game, ignore this.. If this is your first game, ignore this.
4] 4] Each Dreamer places their chosen Each Dreamer places their chosen Dreamer BoardDreamer Board, , Influence CardsInfluence Cards, , MiniatureMiniature and  and Basic Action CardBasic Action Card in front of them. in front of them.
DREAMER BOARDS  
DESCRIPTION
11  –  – Influence deckInfluence deck (face-down). (face-down).
22  –  – Influence Discard pileInfluence Discard pile (face-up). (face-up).
33  – Gained  – Gained 
 ..
44  – Suffered  – Suffered 
 ..
55  –  – Active Progress cards zoneActive Progress cards zone..
11
33
 44
55
22
AA
CC
BB
44