TURN ORDER
Gameplay within both Dreams and Slumbers is divided into Gameplay within both Dreams and Slumbers is divided into TurnsTurns. Each . Each TurnTurn consists of a  consists of a Dreamers PhaseDreamers Phase (where the players act  (where the players act 
simultaneously) followed by a simultaneously) followed by a Dreamscape PhaseDreamscape Phase (where the game acts): (where the game acts):
DREAMERS PHASE
1) DRAW STEP
Each Dreamer draws Each Dreamer draws 44 Influence cards Influence cards, not exceeding their , not exceeding their Hand Size LimitHand Size Limit, which by default is, which by default is  66 cards cards*. If you reach your hand *. If you reach your hand 
limit, you limit, you stop drawingstop drawing and at  and at no timeno time can you have more cards than this limit. If you can draw, you cannot choose to draw fewer cards  can you have more cards than this limit. If you can draw, you cannot choose to draw fewer cards 
than required. Before you draw you may than required. Before you draw you may discarddiscard any number of cards from your hand.  any number of cards from your hand. 
*Some effects and cards may increase this limit.*Some effects and cards may increase this limit.
At any timeAt any time, if your Influence deck runs out of cards while drawing, reshuffle your , if your Influence deck runs out of cards while drawing, reshuffle your Discard pileDiscard pile, creating a new deck, and draw the , creating a new deck, and draw the 
rest of the required cards. However, this comes at a price (see rest of the required cards. However, this comes at a price (see RESHUFFLERESHUFFLE below). below).
2) CARD AND ACTION STEP 
Dreamers move across the Dreamscape, perform actions and play cards (see Dreamers move across the Dreamscape, perform actions and play cards (see DREAMERS ACTIONSDREAMERS ACTIONS, pg 9). Dreamers can take their , pg 9). Dreamers can take their 
actions actions simultaneouslysimultaneously without worrying about player order* unless a specific situation calls for it. This phase ends when all players  without worrying about player order* unless a specific situation calls for it. This phase ends when all players 
agree there is nothing more they wish to do. Then, proceed to the Dreamscape Phase.agree there is nothing more they wish to do. Then, proceed to the Dreamscape Phase.
*See pg 16 if you would like to play with a structured turn order. You may use the First Player marker if you do so.*See pg 16 if you would like to play with a structured turn order. You may use the First Player marker if you do so.
RESHUFFLE!
At any time you have to draw cards but the deck is empty, after reshuffling your Discard Pile and forming a new At any time you have to draw cards but the deck is empty, after reshuffling your Discard Pile and forming a new 
Influence Deck – suffer Influence Deck – suffer 11  
   OR Seal OR Seal 33 Cards. Cards.
To push away the menace of death, you must choose between suffering dangerous Distress or sacrificing cards from your deck To push away the menace of death, you must choose between suffering dangerous Distress or sacrificing cards from your deck 
by Sealing them. The easiest way to remove Distress and recover these Sealed cards is the special Delta Phase tile, hidden in the by Sealing them. The easiest way to remove Distress and recover these Sealed cards is the special Delta Phase tile, hidden in the 
Slumber deck (see Slumber deck (see DELTA PHASEDELTA PHASE, pg 15)., pg 15).
If the game allows you to reshuffle your Influence deck, even though you still have some cards in it, reshuffle all the remaining If the game allows you to reshuffle your Influence deck, even though you still have some cards in it, reshuffle all the remaining 
cards and the cards in your Discard pile to form a new Influence deck. cards and the cards in your Discard pile to form a new Influence deck. As this was not triggered by having to draw cards As this was not triggered by having to draw cards 
you do NOT have to take the reshuffle penalty.you do NOT have to take the reshuffle penalty.
DREAMSCAPE PHASE
1) ENTITY AND DREAM EVENT STEP
The current Turn card determines which effects of this Dream are resolved and in what order. These effects can be found on the Entity The current Turn card determines which effects of this Dream are resolved and in what order. These effects can be found on the Entity 
tile(s), Dream Gate tiles or any revealed Secret cards (see tile(s), Dream Gate tiles or any revealed Secret cards (see TURN CARDSTURN CARDS, pg 12)., pg 12).
The Dreamers cannot use any actions or card effects during this phase unless a card allows it specifically or there is a specialThe Dreamers cannot use any actions or card effects during this phase unless a card allows it specifically or there is a special   
  icon  icon 
present on it.present on it.
Occasionally, there are no effects during this step – this is the case for most of the initial part of your First Dream.Occasionally, there are no effects during this step – this is the case for most of the initial part of your First Dream.
2) DISCARD TURN STEP
The current Turn card is discarded at the end of the Turn. All effects with “until the end of this Turn” timing cease to be in effect now. The current Turn card is discarded at the end of the Turn. All effects with “until the end of this Turn” timing cease to be in effect now. 
Then if there are cards remaining in the Turn Order deck, a new Turn begins with the Then if there are cards remaining in the Turn Order deck, a new Turn begins with the Dreamers PhaseDreamers Phase again. If no cards remain, resolve  again. If no cards remain, resolve 
the “the “Out of TurnsOut of Turns” ” effecteffect (as described on the Dream Gate/Slumber Tile). (as described on the Dream Gate/Slumber Tile).
SEALING AND UNSEALING CARDS
“All around me darkness gathers, Fading is the 
sun that shone,  
We must speak of other matters, You can be 
me when I’m gone.”  
 Neil Gaiman, The Kindly Ones
Sealing cards is one of the most common negative effects in Sealing cards is one of the most common negative effects in 
the game. It removes a number of cards from your Influence deck the game. It removes a number of cards from your Influence deck 
until you find a way to Unseal them.until you find a way to Unseal them.
Seal X cardsSeal X cards: Reveal : Reveal XX Influence cards from the top of your  Influence cards from the top of your 
deck and place them in the Sealed pile. Sealed cards are unavail -deck and place them in the Sealed pile. Sealed cards are unavail -
able until you manage to recover them through an Unseal effect.able until you manage to recover them through an Unseal effect.
Unseal X cardsUnseal X cards: Take : Take XX cards from the top of your Sealed  cards from the top of your Sealed 
pile and place them in your Discard pile. They will become avail-pile and place them in your Discard pile. They will become avail-
able again after you reshuffle your deck.able again after you reshuffle your deck.
We suggest to place your Sealed pile below your Dreamer board We suggest to place your Sealed pile below your Dreamer board 
to mark those cards as unavailable.to mark those cards as unavailable.
Note: Only Influence cards can be Sealed. Other cards in your deck (like Note: Only Influence cards can be Sealed. Other cards in your deck (like 
Flaw cards) are omitted while Sealing (you just skip the Flaw card and draw Flaw cards) are omitted while Sealing (you just skip the Flaw card and draw 
another card). another card). After resolving the Seal effect, any drawn Flaw card is After resolving the Seal effect, any drawn Flaw card is 
placed back on the top of the deck.placed back on the top of the deck.
Note: If you should Seal cards, but you do not currently have cards in your Note: If you should Seal cards, but you do not currently have cards in your 
Influence deck, you do NOT need to reshuffle NOR Seal your cards.Influence deck, you do NOT need to reshuffle NOR Seal your cards.
DISTRESS AND DYING
“For in this sleep of death what dreams  
may come.”  
 – William Shakespeare
 is used to mark distress, fear, fatigue, doubts and wounds  is used to mark distress, fear, fatigue, doubts and wounds 
suffered by the Dreamers. When obtained, place them next suffered by the Dreamers. When obtained, place them next 
to your Dreamer board. to your Dreamer board. 
Dreamers lose when:Dreamers lose when:
  –– Any Dreamer suffers an Any Dreamer suffers an 8th8th  
  dies immediately, and  dies immediately, and  allall  
Dreamers lose. Dreamers lose. 
  –– Whenever a Dreamer should suffer Whenever a Dreamer should suffer 
 , but there are none , but there are none 
left in the pool (there are a total of left in the pool (there are a total of 1616 markers in the game),  markers in the game), allall  
Dreamers lose.Dreamers lose.
  –– When a Dreamer has When a Dreamer has fewerfewer than  than 66 cards cards in total (includ - in total (includ -
ing cards in their influence deck, hand, and Discard Pile but not ing cards in their influence deck, hand, and Discard Pile but not 
Active Progress cards and Sealed cards they immediately die and Active Progress cards and Sealed cards they immediately die and 
all Dreamers lose.all Dreamers lose.
If the Dreamers lose, resolve the If the Dreamers lose, resolve the Death Wisdom cardDeath Wisdom card (reveal  (reveal 
II-42 I Secret cardII-42 I Secret card if it is not revealed yet –  if it is not revealed yet – there is a reminder on there is a reminder on 
your Basic Action cardyour Basic Action card).).
If Dreamers lose If Dreamers lose in a Dreamin a Dream, they additionally discard the cur-, they additionally discard the cur-
rent Dreamscape. and return all cards and tiles of this Dream (ex-rent Dreamscape. and return all cards and tiles of this Dream (ex-
cept for those already gained by Dreamers or added to the game cept for those already gained by Dreamers or added to the game 
decks) to the Secrets. Keep the Dream Gate tile of this Dream so decks) to the Secrets. Keep the Dream Gate tile of this Dream so 
that you may still come back to try again.that you may still come back to try again.
HAND SIZE LIMIT
You can never have more than You can never have more than 66 cards in hand, at any time. cards in hand, at any time.
When drawing cards, you only draw until you have When drawing cards, you only draw until you have 
66 cards in hand,  cards in hand, 
never more.never more.
Some special rules may modify your Hand Size limit.Some special rules may modify your Hand Size limit.
A bonus that allows you to draw more cards does not increase your Hand Size limit.A bonus that allows you to draw more cards does not increase your Hand Size limit.
6
88