LUCK DIE
Many cards and effects require the use of the Luck Many cards and effects require the use of the Luck 
die to determine a  random outcome. The effect die to determine a  random outcome. The effect 
of the roll is indicated on these components.of the roll is indicated on these components.
If a result of a roll isn’t stated, it means that nothing If a result of a roll isn’t stated, it means that nothing 
happens.happens.
A result A result 
  is usually severely negative,  is usually severely negative, 
  is just negative or neutral,  is just negative or neutral, 
and and 
 , , 
 , and , and 
  are usually positive. are usually positive.
BOOSTING YOUR INTENT
Once per turn, when you spend at least Once per turn, when you spend at least 11 Intent (even if it’s less  Intent (even if it’s less 
than the required cost) to pay for any action, you may decide af -than the required cost) to pay for any action, you may decide af -
terwards to roll the Luck die to add additional Intent to this ac -terwards to roll the Luck die to add additional Intent to this ac -
tion. The various outcomes depend on the following results:tion. The various outcomes depend on the following results:
 – The action is failed and you don’t reclaim discarded Influ- – The action is failed and you don’t reclaim discarded Influ-
ence cards used to pay for this action. ence cards used to pay for this action. AdditionallyAdditionally, discard , discard 11  
   
or suffer or suffer 11  
  or Seal  or Seal 33 cards. cards.
 – No Intent is added. If this means that the action fails, you  – No Intent is added. If this means that the action fails, you 
don’t reclaim discarded Influence cards used to pay for this action.don’t reclaim discarded Influence cards used to pay for this action.
  
   
  – add  – add 11//22//33 Intent of the same color. Intent of the same color.
The Luck die is always used as the last source of add -The Luck die is always used as the last source of add -
ing Intent to the actioning Intent to the action  – after rolling the die, you can’t add  – after rolling the die, you can’t add 
any more Intent to this action. If you fail to gather the required any more Intent to this action. If you fail to gather the required 
number of Intent, the used Intent is lost, even though you didn’t number of Intent, the used Intent is lost, even though you didn’t 
perform the action.perform the action.
You may also use the Luck die when performing a Movement You may also use the Luck die when performing a Movement 
action to Move farther. It counts only as 1 Movement. If roll was action to Move farther. It counts only as 1 Movement. If roll was 
failed, the Dreamer does not Move at all.failed, the Dreamer does not Move at all.
MOVEMENT ACTIONS
Her feet half rested half floated,  
upon the floor; Earth scarcely held her down, 
so fast was she becoming a thing of dreams. 
 – Lord Dunsany
, The King of Elfland’s Daughter
A Move action is performed by discarding either Influence A Move action is performed by discarding either Influence 
cards or Active Item cards with cards or Active Item cards with 
  Intent and then moving the  Intent and then moving the 
Dreamer miniature as many spaces as there were Dreamer miniature as many spaces as there were 
  Intent  Intent 
on these. Movement is only ever orthogonal (vertical or horizon-on these. Movement is only ever orthogonal (vertical or horizon-
tal) but never diagonal*.tal) but never diagonal*.
*Some Influence/Item cards may alter this rule and even provide other *Some Influence/Item cards may alter this rule and even provide other 
bonuses to movement...bonuses to movement...
RelocationRelocation – Relocating means moving to another space,  – Relocating means moving to another space, 
ignoring range, Walls, and any other obstacles – much like ignoring range, Walls, and any other obstacles – much like 
a “teleportation” .a “teleportation” .
WALLS 
A
C
IIII
II
B
D
Neither Entities nor Dreamers may Move or measure range Neither Entities nor Dreamers may Move or measure range 
through Walls. If you want to Move to a space behind a Wall (or through Walls. If you want to Move to a space behind a Wall (or 
use an action targeting that space), you have to measure the range use an action targeting that space), you have to measure the range 
around it.around it.
Some Walls do not cover the entire edge of their space (they Some Walls do not cover the entire edge of their space (they 
have an opening in their center, or cover just half their space). have an opening in their center, or cover just half their space). 
This means that the Wall on that edge is disabled.This means that the Wall on that edge is disabled.
Two adjacent tiles may sometimes display a tiny gap between Two adjacent tiles may sometimes display a tiny gap between 
their Walls, just on their edges. These gaps don’t disable the Wall.their Walls, just on their edges. These gaps don’t disable the Wall.
A) The Dreamer moves 1 space.A) The Dreamer moves 1 space.
B) The Dreamer cannot perform this Move because diagonal movement B) The Dreamer cannot perform this Move because diagonal movement 
is not allowed.is not allowed.
C) To perform a legal move to space I, the Dreamer must move 2 spaces.C) To perform a legal move to space I, the Dreamer must move 2 spaces.
D) To perform a legal move to space II, the Dreamer must move 4 spaces D) To perform a legal move to space II, the Dreamer must move 4 spaces 
(the Wall prevents them from taking the shorter path).(the Wall prevents them from taking the shorter path).
ITEMS
The mystifying oddities that can be found scattered through -The mystifying oddities that can be found scattered through -
out the Dreamworld act as useful aids to help the Dreamers over-out the Dreamworld act as useful aids to help the Dreamers over-
come their many challenges.come their many challenges.
At any one time there can only be a maximum of At any one time there can only be a maximum of 33 ACTIVE  ACTIVE 
ITEMSITEMS* which are placed in their designated spaces on the board. * which are placed in their designated spaces on the board. 
Any Dreamer can use these – either by discarding them for their Any Dreamer can use these – either by discarding them for their 
Intent or using them for their effects. Note that not all items are Intent or using them for their effects. Note that not all items are 
discarded after using their effect unless specifically stated.discarded after using their effect unless specifically stated.
*There is a 4th Item Slot on the board that may also be unlocked.*There is a 4th Item Slot on the board that may also be unlocked.
You may have found some You may have found some STARTING ITEMSSTARTING ITEMS during the Ini- during the Ini-
tial Dream (tial Dream ( 33 that you got to keep as  that you got to keep as ACTIVE ITEMSACTIVE ITEMS and the  and the 
remaining remaining 22 that were sent to your  that were sent to your STORAGESTORAGE). If you didn’t find ). If you didn’t find 
them, these would have made their way to the them, these would have made their way to the ITEM MARKETITEM MARKET  
for you to buy later through Shopping Locations on the Dream -for you to buy later through Shopping Locations on the Dream -
world Map.world Map.
All other Item cards owned by the Dreamers are not considered All other Item cards owned by the Dreamers are not considered 
to be active but placed face-down in the Storage slot. to be active but placed face-down in the Storage slot. 
When the game allows you to When the game allows you to RESTORE AN ITEMRESTORE AN ITEM  (e.g.:  (e.g.: 
through the effect of an Influence card or Script event), draw one through the effect of an Influence card or Script event), draw one 
randomly from the randomly from the STORAGESTORAGE and place it in an Active Item slot.  and place it in an Active Item slot. 
If there are no slots available, you must discard one of your other If there are no slots available, you must discard one of your other 
active Items or the Item you just drew back into the Storage. Gen-active Items or the Item you just drew back into the Storage. Gen-
erally erally DISCARDED ITEMSDISCARDED ITEMS will go into the  will go into the STORAGESTORAGE (however  (however 
some may go back to the some may go back to the ITEM MARKETITEM MARKET which you can obtain  which you can obtain 
again by again by SHOPPINGSHOPPING –  – see pg 15see pg 15).).
REROLLS
Many effects allow you to reroll a  die result (some-Many effects allow you to reroll a  die result (some-
times this only applies to your roll, sometimes to any times this only applies to your roll, sometimes to any 
roll, including other Players' and Entity rolls).roll, including other Players' and Entity rolls).
There is no limit to the number of rerolls you can per-There is no limit to the number of rerolls you can per-
form, as long as you can meet the conditions and pay all form, as long as you can meet the conditions and pay all 
costs given on the card/rule allowing that reroll.costs given on the card/rule allowing that reroll.
When you reroll the die, only the result of the last roll When you reroll the die, only the result of the last roll 
is applied. Previous results are ignored.is applied. Previous results are ignored.
WHY ARE WE DIGGING 
EMPTY GRAVES? 
WHO WANTS TO LIVE IN THEM?
RANGE
Most actions and effects requiring a target have a specif-Most actions and effects requiring a target have a specif-
ic range. This is the maximum range of this action / effect. ic range. This is the maximum range of this action / effect. 
Actions and effects can always target spaces that are closer Actions and effects can always target spaces that are closer 
than maximum range.than maximum range.
Range Range 00 means the same space. means the same space.
Range Range 11 means an adjacent space and/or closer spaces. means an adjacent space and/or closer spaces.
“In any range” or “unlimited range” doesn’t mean you may af -“In any range” or “unlimited range” doesn’t mean you may af -
fect spaces behind Walls or Blocked spaces – you still must be able fect spaces behind Walls or Blocked spaces – you still must be able 
to find a legitimate connection between you and the targeted space. to find a legitimate connection between you and the targeted space. 
If a  rule states “in any space, ” you may ignore range, Walls and If a  rule states “in any space, ” you may ignore range, Walls and 
Blocked spaces.Blocked spaces.
Range 0Range 0
 Range 1Range 1
Range 3Range 3
Range 2Range 2
1111