A BRIEF STRATEGY GUIDE
Whenever you find yourself in a situation where you think you Whenever you find yourself in a situation where you think you 
cannot do anything, see if using any of the following might be cannot do anything, see if using any of the following might be 
a way out:a way out:
  –– cards in hand (both their Intent and actions).cards in hand (both their Intent and actions).
  –– your Dreamer’s special action if visible on the back your Dreamer’s special action if visible on the back 
of the Influence deck.of the Influence deck.
  –– actions listed on the Basic Actions cards (e.g., discarding actions listed on the Basic Actions cards (e.g., discarding 
3  cards to gain a Shining Gem, discarding Morphing tokens, 3  cards to gain a Shining Gem, discarding Morphing tokens, 
peeking on the Secret card).peeking on the Secret card).
  –– Boosting your Intent by rolling the Luck die.Boosting your Intent by rolling the Luck die.
  –– using your Shining Gems.using your Shining Gems.
  –– using your Mask ability.using your Mask ability.
  –– using any of the Wisdom cards you have.using any of the Wisdom cards you have.
  –– using any of the Progress cards you have placed.using any of the Progress cards you have placed.
  –– using any of the active Items (either for its Intent or Action).using any of the active Items (either for its Intent or Action).
  –– using the Clock (either to Move or to add a Turn card).using the Clock (either to Move or to add a Turn card).
  –– looking for a Sign token match.looking for a Sign token match.
  –– looking for any hints hidden in the Dreamscape (be it writ-looking for any hints hidden in the Dreamscape (be it writ-
ten or graphic).ten or graphic).
REMEMBER YOUR MASK
Mask effects allow you to avoid a lot of penalties while paying Mask effects allow you to avoid a lot of penalties while paying 
relatively low costs. During the Awakening, you may exchange relatively low costs. During the Awakening, you may exchange 
your Mask for any other Mask you have, especially if it better suits your Mask for any other Mask you have, especially if it better suits 
your deck or can help you in the upcoming Dream.your deck or can help you in the upcoming Dream.
BALANCE YOUR DECK
When you play solo or with 2 players, it is wise not to overspe-When you play solo or with 2 players, it is wise not to overspe-
cialize your deck e.g.: if both players have aggressive cialize your deck e.g.: if both players have aggressive 
  heavy  heavy 
decks, they might have a problem encountering creatures that decks, they might have a problem encountering creatures that 
require more require more 
  to manage. You can always rebuild your deck  to manage. You can always rebuild your deck 
during an Awakening.during an Awakening.
NOT ALL CARDS ARE NEEDED
Some cards might not fit your particular deck strengths. When Some cards might not fit your particular deck strengths. When 
you gain a new card, think whether it will compliment your deck you gain a new card, think whether it will compliment your deck 
and playstyle. The more cards you have in your deck, the smaller and playstyle. The more cards you have in your deck, the smaller 
chance you will draw useful cards in any given situation. On the chance you will draw useful cards in any given situation. On the 
other hand if you have a smaller deck, you will run out of cards other hand if you have a smaller deck, you will run out of cards 
sooner and suffer negative effects more often. A recommended sooner and suffer negative effects more often. A recommended 
deck size is deck size is 3030 cards. Remember also that the more customised  cards. Remember also that the more customised 
your Influence cards, the less the availability of your Dreamer’s your Influence cards, the less the availability of your Dreamer’s 
innate back-of-card action.innate back-of-card action.
SHINING GEMS
 allow you to reroll ANY die (even the Entity Movement Die).  allow you to reroll ANY die (even the Entity Movement Die). 
You may be able to slow down a powerful Entity by doing this. If You may be able to slow down a powerful Entity by doing this. If 
you find yourself with too many cards in your hand with no use you find yourself with too many cards in your hand with no use 
consider discarding 3 cards to gain 1 consider discarding 3 cards to gain 1 
 . Later in the game you . Later in the game you 
will find a Wisdom card that allows even more use out of them.will find a Wisdom card that allows even more use out of them.
ETHER
 has other uses than buying Influence Cards. You may spend  has other uses than buying Influence Cards. You may spend 
it to discard nasty Morphings from Entities and to remove Flaws it to discard nasty Morphings from Entities and to remove Flaws 
from your deck. Items you do not find in Dreams also make their from your deck. Items you do not find in Dreams also make their 
way into the Item Market where you can buy them with way into the Item Market where you can buy them with 
  as well. as well.
ITEMS
Items are not only a terrific Intent boost but have significant Items are not only a terrific Intent boost but have significant 
gameplay effects ranging from generating additional keys or avoid-gameplay effects ranging from generating additional keys or avoid-
ing unwanted Slumbers. Note that you do not have to discard many ing unwanted Slumbers. Note that you do not have to discard many 
of the Items after use, unless you are using them for their  Intent.of the Items after use, unless you are using them for their  Intent.
BOOSTING INTENT
It is useful to sometimes boost your Intent using a Luck die. It is useful to sometimes boost your Intent using a Luck die. 
Many effects grant you die rerolls, so don’t be afraid to use this. Many effects grant you die rerolls, so don’t be afraid to use this. 
NAVIGATING SLUMBERS
Slumbers – particularly the easy ones – are a good way to build Slumbers – particularly the easy ones – are a good way to build 
up your Dreamer’s Progress card zone in order to prepare your -up your Dreamer’s Progress card zone in order to prepare your -
self for Dreams. Not all Slumbers will require you to combat ene-self for Dreams. Not all Slumbers will require you to combat ene-
mies – use your Dreamer’s strengths to their advantage. mies – use your Dreamer’s strengths to their advantage. 
As Turn cards are open information, time completing the As Turn cards are open information, time completing the 
Slumber with the most desired Loot while avoiding negative En -Slumber with the most desired Loot while avoiding negative En -
tity effects. If there is little benefit in completing the Slumber or tity effects. If there is little benefit in completing the Slumber or 
it is too difficult, consider skipping it. This option sometimes has it is too difficult, consider skipping it. This option sometimes has 
less punishing effects than if you were to try and defeat the Entity. less punishing effects than if you were to try and defeat the Entity. 
A certain game mechanic (Deliverance) unlocked later will al -A certain game mechanic (Deliverance) unlocked later will al -
low you to remove or alter certain Slumbers.  low you to remove or alter certain Slumbers.  
DREAMS
A thorough exploration of Dreams will allow you to better A thorough exploration of Dreams will allow you to better 
understand them and gain more knowledge about the world understand them and gain more knowledge about the world 
of Etherfields. Checking all Note cards available (even some from of Etherfields. Checking all Note cards available (even some from 
previous Dreams) may make finishing the current Dream easier previous Dreams) may make finishing the current Dream easier 
or grant special rewards. or grant special rewards. 
Don’t forget to also check the back of the Dream Gate tile Don’t forget to also check the back of the Dream Gate tile 
for tips or rules you may have forgotten.for tips or rules you may have forgotten.
It may be an idea to have a scrap piece of paper to record a few It may be an idea to have a scrap piece of paper to record a few 
brief notes to help you with more intricate puzzles.brief notes to help you with more intricate puzzles.
Do not hesitate to use the Clock in order to add more Turns Do not hesitate to use the Clock in order to add more Turns 
if you feel you do not have enough time, especially if you are play-if you feel you do not have enough time, especially if you are play-
ing solo. Don’t forget that you may use Hours to move as well ing solo. Don’t forget that you may use Hours to move as well 
in case you find yourself almost within range of an Entity with in case you find yourself almost within range of an Entity with 
no cards left in your hand.no cards left in your hand.
THE DREAMWORLD
Carefully plan your travel on the Dreamworld Map. Take note Carefully plan your travel on the Dreamworld Map. Take note 
of more efficient routes with more rewards and less penalties. of more efficient routes with more rewards and less penalties. 
Some actions and Items that work only on the Dreamworld may Some actions and Items that work only on the Dreamworld may 
come in handy here as well. Also don’t forget about the potential come in handy here as well. Also don’t forget about the potential 
positive (and negative) effects of Seasons on your travels.positive (and negative) effects of Seasons on your travels.
Try to time when you will encounter the Delta Phase so that Try to time when you will encounter the Delta Phase so that 
you are refreshed just prior to entering a new Dream. If you find you are refreshed just prior to entering a new Dream. If you find 
yourself in a fix, do not hesitate to use Awakening. It might be yourself in a fix, do not hesitate to use Awakening. It might be 
better to lose your placed Progress cards in exchange for the loss better to lose your placed Progress cards in exchange for the loss 
of large amounts of Distress and Sealed cards. of large amounts of Distress and Sealed cards. 
1818