5] 5] Place the following into their positions:Place the following into their positions:
a) a) Turn Cards Turn Cards DD   – Shuffle and place face-down on the – Shuffle and place face-down on the 
Turn Discard slot.Turn Discard slot.
b) b) Fate Cards Fate Cards EE  – Shuffle and place face-down on the Fate  – Shuffle and place face-down on the Fate 
deck slot.deck slot.
c) c) Slumber deck / Entity slot Slumber deck / Entity slot GG  – Set aside the Delta Phase  – Set aside the Delta Phase 
Tile (green back), shuffle the remaining cards and place them on Tile (green back), shuffle the remaining cards and place them on 
top of it. This is also a place for top of it. This is also a place for Entity tilesEntity tiles..
d) d) Flaws Cards Flaws Cards FF   – Shuffle and place face-down on the – Shuffle and place face-down on the 
Flaw deck slot.Flaw deck slot.
e) e) Slumber Map Tiles Slumber Map Tiles HH – Shuffle and place remaining tiles – Shuffle and place remaining tiles 
on the Slumber Map Tiles slot.on the Slumber Map Tiles slot.
f) f) Season Cards Season Cards II  – Ensure that the top card is the same  – Ensure that the top card is the same 
from your previous game.from your previous game.
g) g) Take out the Wisdom card holder housing all found Wis-Take out the Wisdom card holder housing all found Wis-
dom cards. dom cards. 
h) h) Dream Gate Tiles – Take out your available Dream Gate Dream Gate Tiles – Take out your available Dream Gate 
Tiles from the special envelop. When starting any Dream they will Tiles from the special envelop. When starting any Dream they will 
be placed on be placed on JJ . Do not do it yet!. Do not do it yet!
i) i) Place all discovered Dreamworld Map Tiles on the Place all discovered Dreamworld Map Tiles on the Dream-Dream-
world Mapworld Map board  board KK ..
6] 6] Place all dice, tokens and markers in separate piles near Place all dice, tokens and markers in separate piles near 
the board.the board. If they have been unlocked, both universal and per - If they have been unlocked, both universal and per -
sonal Sign tokens can be placed out also otherwise leave these sonal Sign tokens can be placed out also otherwise leave these 
in the box.in the box.
7] 7] Place the Place the Hour CounterHour Counter at the corresponding hour of the  at the corresponding hour of the 
ClockClock based on how many  based on how many DreamersDreamers are playing: 1/2/3/4/5  are playing: 1/2/3/4/5 
DreamersDreamers =  = 55//44//33//22//11  HoursHours  LL   
8] 8] Resolve the Resolve the Awakening CardAwakening Card starting from  starting from Step 4Step 4. After the . After the 
““Placing 2 Starting/Setup Slumber Map tilesPlacing 2 Starting/Setup Slumber Map tiles” step (the tiles are ” step (the tiles are 
labelled on the back), place your Dreamers in any of the labelled on the back), place your Dreamers in any of the 
  spaces.  spaces. 
Note: During this resolution, players may change their Dreamer, their In-Note: During this resolution, players may change their Dreamer, their In-
fluence deck composition, and which Masks they want to make active.fluence deck composition, and which Masks they want to make active.
IF THIS IS YOUR FIRST GAME,  IF THIS IS YOUR FIRST GAME,  
YOU ARE READY TO START THE GAME.  YOU ARE READY TO START THE GAME.  
FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE REST OF THIS PAGE. FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE REST OF THIS PAGE. 
THEN, THEN, TAKE AND RESOLVE TILE TAKE AND RESOLVE TILE 1-01X1-01X    
((The First Dream Gate tileThe First Dream Gate tile). To learn how to resolve this card ). To learn how to resolve this card 
continue to continue to BASIC RULESBASIC RULES on the next page). on the next page).
ELEMENTS IN THE BOX
You can leave the following elements in the box (take them out You can leave the following elements in the box (take them out 
as needed):as needed):
  –– Influence Market DeckInfluence Market Deck – shuffle before drawing. – shuffle before drawing.
  –– Item MarketItem Market – shuffle before drawing.  – shuffle before drawing. If this is your first If this is your first 
game, the Item Market is empty.game, the Item Market is empty.
  –– Secret Cards and TilesSecret Cards and Tiles – These stay presorted in order. – These stay presorted in order.
  –– Unused MasksUnused Masks..
REVEAL
Whenever the game asks you to reveal a  card or tile with Whenever the game asks you to reveal a  card or tile with 
a  specific code, find it in the Secret deck/tiles (by checking a  specific code, find it in the Secret deck/tiles (by checking 
the code on its back) and reveal it. Place it in corresponding slot the code on its back) and reveal it. Place it in corresponding slot 
or nearby game board if it doesn't have a designated slot (which or nearby game board if it doesn't have a designated slot (which 
happens mostly in case of Dream specific cards).happens mostly in case of Dream specific cards).
If, when asking you to reveal a specific card/tile, the game If, when asking you to reveal a specific card/tile, the game 
only gives a letter instead of a full code, it means the revealed only gives a letter instead of a full code, it means the revealed 
card/tile comes from the current Dream instead of the Secret card/tile comes from the current Dream instead of the Secret 
deck/tiles.deck/tiles.
SECRET SCRIPTS 
Etherfields uses a Etherfields uses a Book of Secret ScriptsBook of Secret Scripts  to reveal its sto- to reveal its sto-
ries and game events. Whenever you see a reference to "s. ####"  ries and game events. Whenever you see a reference to "s. ####"  
turn to the relevant number in the Book of Secret Scripts and turn to the relevant number in the Book of Secret Scripts and 
read it aloud.  read it aloud.  
An updated digital version of the Book of Secret Scripts can An updated digital version of the Book of Secret Scripts can 
be found at: https:/ /etherfields-secret-scripts.web.app/.be found at: https:/ /etherfields-secret-scripts.web.app/.
MULTIPLE CHOICES
When the game instructs you to do something and there When the game instructs you to do something and there 
are several applicable options (like moving an Entity when are several applicable options (like moving an Entity when 
you have several possible paths), the Dreamers choose an op-you have several possible paths), the Dreamers choose an op-
tion as a group. Further, if you do not satisfy the requirements tion as a group. Further, if you do not satisfy the requirements 
to make a certain choice, you may not choose it. This applies to to make a certain choice, you may not choose it. This applies to 
the whole group if the choice is directed to all the Dreamers.the whole group if the choice is directed to all the Dreamers.
RULES PRECEDENCE
When a rule on a card, tile or script contradicts the rulebook, When a rule on a card, tile or script contradicts the rulebook, 
the rule on that card, tile or script takes precedence.the rule on that card, tile or script takes precedence.
PLAYER COUNT ICON (
 )
 indicates the Player Count. It is always equal to the number  indicates the Player Count. It is always equal to the number 
of players in the game (e.g.: if there are 4 players in the game, this of players in the game (e.g.: if there are 4 players in the game, this 
icon means “4”).icon means “4”).
“/” SYMBOL
The “/” symbol means “or. ”The “/” symbol means “or. ”
There will be many references to “There will be many references to “ DREAMSDREAMS” and ” and 
““SLUMBERSSLUMBERS” throughout both the rulebook, cards and ” throughout both the rulebook, cards and 
tiles and it may initially be easy to confuse the two. tiles and it may initially be easy to confuse the two. 
Generally Generally DREAMSDREAMS are confined larger adventures while  are confined larger adventures while 
SLUMBERS are shorter mini encounters between them.SLUMBERS are shorter mini encounters between them.
DREAMSDREAMS use  use DREAMSCAPE MAP TILESDREAMSCAPE MAP TILES  (found within  (found within 
the unique Secret cards and tiles of the Dream). Your adventure the unique Secret cards and tiles of the Dream). Your adventure 
will start in a Dream.will start in a Dream.
SLUMBERSSLUMBERS use  use SLUMBER (DREAMSCAPE) SLUMBER (DREAMSCAPE) MAP TILES MAP TILES 
& the & the SLUMBER DECKSLUMBER DECK. . 
Finally, if we zoom further out to a bird’s-eye global Finally, if we zoom further out to a bird’s-eye global 
perspective, our Dreamers – collectively as a group – navigate perspective, our Dreamers – collectively as a group – navigate 
the the DREAMWORLD MAPDREAMWORLD MAP  KK  in order to gain passage into  in order to gain passage into 
Dreams, encountering numerous Slumbers along the way. You’ll Dreams, encountering numerous Slumbers along the way. You’ll 
be introduced to Slumbers and the Dreamworld Map later.be introduced to Slumbers and the Dreamworld Map later.
!
Throughout the rest of the rulebook, these Throughout the rest of the rulebook, these 
highlighted sectionshighlighted sections  are designed to provide a small  are designed to provide a small 
amount of guidance for the first game you play. The amount of guidance for the first game you play. The 
rulebook has been structured with the intention that rulebook has been structured with the intention that 
you dive into the First Dream – the game's tutorial – you dive into the First Dream – the game's tutorial – 
without necessarily reading the rulebook cover-to-without necessarily reading the rulebook cover-to-
cover but referencing it from time to time as you run cover but referencing it from time to time as you run 
into new concepts. This portion of the game is designed into new concepts. This portion of the game is designed 
to slowly introduce you to all the rules.to slowly introduce you to all the rules.
DD
HH
LL
GG
JJ
II
KK
 FF
EE
55