MORPHINGS
MORPHINGSMORPHINGS (applied mainly during the  (applied mainly during the 
  step on  step on 
TURN ORDERTURN ORDER cards) in particular, add a boost to the  cards) in particular, add a boost to the ENTI-ENTI-
TYTY making it stronger and more dangerous as long as the token  making it stronger and more dangerous as long as the token 
is on the is on the ENTITY TILEENTITY TILE. When you add . When you add 11 or more MORPHING  or more MORPHING 
TOKENS, draw them randomly and place them face-up on the TOKENS, draw them randomly and place them face-up on the 
ENTITY tile. It is recommended you use a small cup or opaque ENTITY tile. It is recommended you use a small cup or opaque 
bag to do this. Remember that as a basic action you can remove bag to do this. Remember that as a basic action you can remove 
a Morphing by spending a a Morphing by spending a 
  or a Key. Removed Morphings go  or a Key. Removed Morphings go 
back to the Morphing Pool.back to the Morphing Pool.
Each Each ENTITYENTITY effect that inflicts  effect that inflicts 
  inflicts  inflicts 11 addi- addi-
tional tional 
Each Each ENTITYENTITY effect that Seals your cards, Seals  effect that Seals your cards, Seals 22 ad- ad-
ditional cardsditional cards
ENTITYENTITY Movement is raised by  Movement is raised by 22. When you roll . When you roll 
 , it , it 
still only Moves still only Moves 11 space. space.
All All ENTITYENTITY effects with range have that range in - effects with range have that range in -
creased by creased by 11 space. space.
All All MASKSMASKS worn by the Dreamers are inactive. All  worn by the Dreamers are inactive. All 
effects are applied immediately (e.g.: hand or Progress effects are applied immediately (e.g.: hand or Progress 
card limit reductions cause immediate discards).card limit reductions cause immediate discards).
All placed All placed PROGRESSPROGRESS cards are inactive. All effects  cards are inactive. All effects 
are applied immediately.  New ones can be placed but are applied immediately.  New ones can be placed but 
will remain inactive.will remain inactive.
Dreamers cannot Dreamers cannot rerollreroll dice results in any way. dice results in any way.
Dreamers cannot use their Dreamers cannot use their 
  for rerolls (but can  for rerolls (but can 
gain more). They can however still pay for effects that gain more). They can however still pay for effects that 
cost cost 
 ..
MASKS
Sometimes it’s hard for us to find the truth
In a world we no longer seem to understand
 – Brendan Perry
, This Boy
Throughout the course of the First Dream, the Dreamers will Throughout the course of the First Dream, the Dreamers will 
have obtained their first two Masks. When worn, they provide have obtained their first two Masks. When worn, they provide 
you with special powerful abilities.  you with special powerful abilities.  
Each Dreamer may only wear one of them at a time – this is Each Dreamer may only wear one of them at a time – this is 
your Active Mask, normally chosen at the beginning of each game your Active Mask, normally chosen at the beginning of each game 
session (place it in a plastic stand). The ability on the back of this session (place it in a plastic stand). The ability on the back of this 
Mask may be used at any time.Mask may be used at any time.
If the Mask’s action can be used Once per Turn, you may place If the Mask’s action can be used Once per Turn, you may place 
it at the top of your deck after using it as a reminder and remove it at the top of your deck after using it as a reminder and remove 
it at the beginning of the next Turn during the Draw step. it at the beginning of the next Turn during the Draw step. 
When you are instructed to When you are instructed to RestoreRestore a Mask you replace your  a Mask you replace your 
Active Mask with one of your other Masks (or if both Masks were Active Mask with one of your other Masks (or if both Masks were 
discarded, to make one of them Active). When you are instructed discarded, to make one of them Active). When you are instructed 
to to discarddiscard a Mask you lose it, place it either back in the box or  a Mask you lose it, place it either back in the box or 
off to the side. If you like you may choose to place your Sealed off to the side. If you like you may choose to place your Sealed 
cards underneath or atop discarded Masks. When you gain a new cards underneath or atop discarded Masks. When you gain a new 
Mask you may immediately wear it, discarding your current Ac -Mask you may immediately wear it, discarding your current Ac -
tive Mask.tive Mask.
Unused Masks can be placed back into the box. The Secret Cards Unused Masks can be placed back into the box. The Secret Cards 
((II-41 S cardsII-41 S cards) representing your Dreamers’ Masks can be used ) representing your Dreamers’ Masks can be used 
to remind which Dreamer owns which Mask from game to game.to remind which Dreamer owns which Mask from game to game.
THE CLOCK
You may have found some references to gaining or losing You may have found some references to gaining or losing 
HOURSHOURS. At the beginning of a normal game, the . At the beginning of a normal game, the CLOCKCLOCK is setup  is setup 
according to the number of players with the according to the number of players with the HOUR COUNTERHOUR COUNTER  
on the number of HOURS you have. These can be used to either on the number of HOURS you have. These can be used to either 
move or gain more Turns – spending X HOURS for X Movement move or gain more Turns – spending X HOURS for X Movement 
or TURNS respectively.or TURNS respectively.
Whenever the game causes you to lose/gain Hours, the Hour Whenever the game causes you to lose/gain Hours, the Hour 
Counter is moved down/up the track by the same amount, re-Counter is moved down/up the track by the same amount, re-
spectively.spectively.
WISDOM CARDS
From time to time, you will acquire From time to time, you will acquire WISDOM CARDSWISDOM CARDS during  during 
the course of the campaign. These cards add new rules that the course of the campaign. These cards add new rules that 
change the game or offer the Dreamers new possibilities. change the game or offer the Dreamers new possibilities. 
Place the Wisdom cards in their dedicated card holder. It can Place the Wisdom cards in their dedicated card holder. It can 
hold up to hold up to 1818 cards ( cards (99 on each side). on each side).
All the Wisdom cards you have gained All the Wisdom cards you have gained are always considered are always considered 
activeactive..
There is a possibility to have too many Wisdom cards to fit There is a possibility to have too many Wisdom cards to fit 
in  the card holder. In such a case, players may simply choose in  the card holder. In such a case, players may simply choose 
which cards to keep in the card holder for the ease of use. Regard-which cards to keep in the card holder for the ease of use. Regard-
less of their choice, all the Wisdom cards are considered active.less of their choice, all the Wisdom cards are considered active.
FINISHING DREAMS/SLUMBERS
After finishing a Slumber / Dream, do not discard Influence cards from your hand, placed Progress cards, Shining Gems or other After finishing a Slumber / Dream, do not discard Influence cards from your hand, placed Progress cards, Shining Gems or other 
bonuses, unless a rule specifies otherwise. Do not reshuffle your Discard piles or decks. Leave all Sealed cards as they arebonuses, unless a rule specifies otherwise. Do not reshuffle your Discard piles or decks. Leave all Sealed cards as they are
Dreamers return to the Team marker on the Dreamworld Map, unless the Slumber/Dream tells you to do otherwise. Be very care-Dreamers return to the Team marker on the Dreamworld Map, unless the Slumber/Dream tells you to do otherwise. Be very care-
ful that you pay attention to following the instructions of Dream conclusion passages properly, lest you miss a step that prevents ful that you pay attention to following the instructions of Dream conclusion passages properly, lest you miss a step that prevents 
you from proceeding through the campaign.you from proceeding through the campaign.
After your First Dream, your Dreamers will be instructed to “Awaken” (see After your First Dream, your Dreamers will be instructed to “Awaken” (see AWAKENINGAWAKENING below).  below). 
After Awakening, you’ll find yourself on the Dreamworld Map and on the doorstep to the City.After Awakening, you’ll find yourself on the Dreamworld Map and on the doorstep to the City.
AWAKENING
Awakening is a recovery/reset mechanic discovered when you have completed the First Dream that allows your Dreamers the op-Awakening is a recovery/reset mechanic discovered when you have completed the First Dream that allows your Dreamers the op-
portunity to completely remove their Distress and Sealed cards, albeit at the cost of obtained Keys, portunity to completely remove their Distress and Sealed cards, albeit at the cost of obtained Keys, 
  and placed Progress Cards.  and placed Progress Cards. 
Dreamers will awaken at the “Awakening” Location on the Dreamworld Suburbia District. This can be resolved at any moment after Dreamers will awaken at the “Awakening” Location on the Dreamworld Suburbia District. This can be resolved at any moment after 
resolving the Location effect on the Dreamworld Map. See the Awakening Wisdom card for the detailed steps involved. Note that resolving the Location effect on the Dreamworld Map. See the Awakening Wisdom card for the detailed steps involved. Note that 
during this resolution players will be able to change their Dreamers, change their Influence deck composition and choose between during this resolution players will be able to change their Dreamers, change their Influence deck composition and choose between 
their available Masks to make active.their available Masks to make active.
STOP! YOU SHOULD KNOW ENOUGH NOW TO COMPLETE THE FIRST DREAM. 
CONTINUE ONWARDS ONCE YOU HAVE COMPLETED IT.
TIME, SPACE, 
AND MATTER ARE JUST AN ILLUSION.
1313