RULES SUMMARY
TURN ORDER
DREAMERS PHASE
1] 1] Draw StepDraw Step
Draw Draw 44 Influence cards not exceeding Hand Size limit (default  Influence cards not exceeding Hand Size limit (default 
is is 66 cards). At no time can you have more cards than this limit. cards). At no time can you have more cards than this limit.
  –– If you reach your hand limit, you stop drawing. If you reach your hand limit, you stop drawing. 
  –– If you can draw, you cannot choose to draw fewer cards than If you can draw, you cannot choose to draw fewer cards than 
required.required.
  –– Before you draw you may discard any number of cards from Before you draw you may discard any number of cards from 
your hand.your hand.
  –– At any time, if your Influence deck runs out of cards while At any time, if your Influence deck runs out of cards while 
drawing (not only during the draw step), reshuffle your Discard drawing (not only during the draw step), reshuffle your Discard 
pile into a new deck and draw the rest of the required cards but pile into a new deck and draw the rest of the required cards but 
suffer 1 suffer 1 
  OR Seal 3 Cards. OR Seal 3 Cards.
2] 2] Card and Action StepCard and Action Step
Dreamers freely perform actions until everyone runs out Dreamers freely perform actions until everyone runs out 
of cards or chooses to pass:of cards or chooses to pass:
  –– Dream action: either a Map/Dream Gate tile action or Dream action: either a Map/Dream Gate tile action or 
an Entity tile Interactionan Entity tile Interaction
  –– Move actionsMove actions
  –– Basic ActionsBasic Actions
  –– Actions from Influence cardsActions from Influence cards
  –– Actions from active Item cardsActions from active Item cards
  –– Or activities:Or activities:
  –– Placing Progress cardsPlacing Progress cards
  –– Gaining Shining GemsGaining Shining Gems
DREAMSCAPE PHASE
1] 1] Entity and Dream Event StepEntity and Dream Event Step
Resolve Entity and Dream effects according to the current Resolve Entity and Dream effects according to the current 
Turn cardTurn card
2] 2] Discard Turn stepDiscard Turn step
Discard the current Turn card.Discard the current Turn card.
MOVEMENT
Dreamers and Entities Move by crossing consecutive spaces Dreamers and Entities Move by crossing consecutive spaces 
vertically and horizontally, but never diagonally.vertically and horizontally, but never diagonally.
RANGE
  –– Range of Range of 00 means the space you are on. means the space you are on.
  –– Range Range 11 means an adjacent space and/or closer spaces. means an adjacent space and/or closer spaces.
  –– Range of Range of 11 or more means you may target spaces in that  or more means you may target spaces in that 
range or closer than the number stated on the action.range or closer than the number stated on the action.
“Range is always counted only at the start of performing an Ac-“Range is always counted only at the start of performing an Ac-
tion. Range is not counted through walls. ”tion. Range is not counted through walls. ”
ENTITY MOVEMENT
Entities Move during the Dreamscape Phase, when the steps Entities Move during the Dreamscape Phase, when the steps 
of the current Turn card are resolved. During the step with of the current Turn card are resolved. During the step with 
 , , 
roll the Entity Movement die:roll the Entity Movement die:
The Entity moves The Entity moves 11 space only. space only.
The Entity moves by the number of spaces indicated by its The Entity moves by the number of spaces indicated by its 
Movement value.Movement value.
The Entity moves by its Movement value, then roll again The Entity moves by its Movement value, then roll again 
and resolve the new roll.and resolve the new roll.
This Entity ignores the Movement die.This Entity ignores the Movement die.
Entities always Move toward the closest Dreamer unless stat -Entities always Move toward the closest Dreamer unless stat -
ed otherwise in their Movement special rules. When they enter ed otherwise in their Movement special rules. When they enter 
the targeted Dreamer’s space, they stop their Move. the targeted Dreamer’s space, they stop their Move. 
If an Entity does not have a legal path to its target (e.g. to any If an Entity does not have a legal path to its target (e.g. to any 
Dreamer), it does not Move.Dreamer), it does not Move.
BOOSTING YOUR INTENT
Once per Turn, when you spend at least Once per Turn, when you spend at least 11 Intent (even if it’s less  Intent (even if it’s less 
than the required cost) to pay for any action, you may decide af -than the required cost) to pay for any action, you may decide af -
terward to roll the Luck die to add additional Intent to this action. terward to roll the Luck die to add additional Intent to this action. 
Depending on the outcome:Depending on the outcome:
 – That action is failed and you don’t reclaim discarded Influ- – That action is failed and you don’t reclaim discarded Influ-
ence cards used to pay for this action. ence cards used to pay for this action. AdditionallyAdditionally, discard 1 , discard 1 
   
or suffer or suffer 11  
  or Seal  or Seal 33 cards. cards.
 – No Intent is added. If this means that the action fails,  – No Intent is added. If this means that the action fails, 
you don’t reclaim discarded Influence cards used to pay for this you don’t reclaim discarded Influence cards used to pay for this 
action.action.
  
   
  – add  – add 11//22//33 Intent of the same color. Intent of the same color.
The Luck die is always used as the last source of add -The Luck die is always used as the last source of add -
ing Intent to the actioning Intent to the action  – after rolling the die, you can’t add  – after rolling the die, you can’t add 
any more Intent to this action. If you fail to gather the required any more Intent to this action. If you fail to gather the required 
number of Intent, the used Intent is lost, even though you didn’t number of Intent, the used Intent is lost, even though you didn’t 
perform the action.perform the action.
You may also use the Luck die when performing a Movement You may also use the Luck die when performing a Movement 
action to Move farther.action to Move farther.
MORPHINGS
MORPHINGSMORPHINGS (applied during the  (applied during the 
  step on  step on TURNTURN  
ORDERORDER cards) in particular, add a boost to the  cards) in particular, add a boost to the ENTITYENTITY making it  making it 
stronger and more dangerous as long as the token is on the stronger and more dangerous as long as the token is on the ENTITY ENTITY 
TILETILE. When you add . When you add 11 or more  or more MORPHINGS TOKENSMORPHINGS TOKENS, draw , draw 
them randomly and place them face-up on the them randomly and place them face-up on the ENTITYENTITY tile. It is  tile. It is 
recommended you use a small cup or opaque bag to do this. Remember recommended you use a small cup or opaque bag to do this. Remember 
that as a basic action you can remove a Morphing by spending a that as a basic action you can remove a Morphing by spending a 
 ..
Each Each ENTITYENTITY effect that inflicts  effect that inflicts 
  inflicts  inflicts 11 addi- addi-
tional tional 
Each Each ENTITYENTITY effect that Seals your cards, Seals  effect that Seals your cards, Seals 22 ad- ad-
ditional cardsditional cards
ENTITYENTITY Movement is raised by  Movement is raised by 22. When you roll . When you roll 
 , , 
it still only Moves it still only Moves 11 space. space.
All All ENTITYENTITY effects with range have that range in - effects with range have that range in -
creased by creased by 11 space. space.
All All MASKSMASKS worn by the Dreamers are inactive. All  worn by the Dreamers are inactive. All 
effects are applied immediately (eg. hand or progress effects are applied immediately (eg. hand or progress 
card limit reductions cause immediate discards).card limit reductions cause immediate discards).
All placed All placed PROGRESSPROGRESS cards are inactive. All effects  cards are inactive. All effects 
are applied immediately.  New ones can be placed but are applied immediately.  New ones can be placed but 
will remain inactive.will remain inactive.
Dreamers cannot reroll dice results in any way.Dreamers cannot reroll dice results in any way.
Dreamers cannot use their Dreamers cannot use their 
  for rerolls (but can  for rerolls (but can 
gain more). They can however can still pay for effects gain more). They can however can still pay for effects 
that cost that cost 
 ..
STATE TOKENS
During the game, Dreamers and Entities may be affected During the game, Dreamers and Entities may be affected 
by various States.by various States.
State tokens, when gained, are placed next to the targeted min-State tokens, when gained, are placed next to the targeted min-
iature/Entity and only affect it alone.iature/Entity and only affect it alone.
When you should place a State token and there are none left When you should place a State token and there are none left 
in the pool, the effect is ignored. Note that tokens share different in the pool, the effect is ignored. Note that tokens share different 
States on the opposite sides and this may limit which States are States on the opposite sides and this may limit which States are 
able to be placed.able to be placed.
DazedDazed – The maximum range of Entity effects/ – The maximum range of Entity effects/
Dreamer Actions is reduced to 1 to until the end of the Dreamer Actions is reduced to 1 to until the end of the 
Turn/Dreamers Phase.Turn/Dreamers Phase.
StunnedStunned – Any  – Any 
  caused by effects of the stunned  caused by effects of the stunned 
target are ignored for this Turn.target are ignored for this Turn.
ParalyzedParalyzed – The affected Entity/Dreamer is un - – The affected Entity/Dreamer is un -
able to Move/Relocate until the end of the Turn/able to Move/Relocate until the end of the Turn/
Dreamers Phase.Dreamers Phase.
PoisonedPoisoned – The affected Entity is unable to gain  – The affected Entity is unable to gain 
newer Morphings until the end of the Dream/Slumber.newer Morphings until the end of the Dream/Slumber.
2020