SEASON CARDS
Season cards alter some rules when you are travers-Season cards alter some rules when you are travers-
ing the Dreamworld. Generally you will cause positive ing the Dreamworld. Generally you will cause positive 
Seasons to occur if you complete Dreams with a Victory. Seasons to occur if you complete Dreams with a Victory. 
Conversely failing a Dream will cause a negative Season to Conversely failing a Dream will cause a negative Season to 
occur. There are hints on the Season cards to let you know occur. There are hints on the Season cards to let you know 
which positive or negative effect will occur for winning/which positive or negative effect will occur for winning/
failing which Dreams. Note that dying does not cause Sea-failing which Dreams. Note that dying does not cause Sea-
sons to change.sons to change.
DREAMWORLD MAP IN ETHERFIELDS 2.0
Your first few moves on the Dreamworld Map may seem very Your first few moves on the Dreamworld Map may seem very 
simple and straightforward. Do not mind that. The world will simple and straightforward. Do not mind that. The world will 
evolve as time goes on!evolve as time goes on!
FATE CARDS 
  
If each Dreamer Seals 
1 card,  
Relocate the Team 
 
to the chosen Location of this 
Dreamworld Map tile.
OR
You may reshuffle the Fate deck.
The maximum range of The maximum range of 
AssaultAssault actions  actions 
is is 11 and cannot be increased in  and cannot be increased in 
anyany way. way.
Draw and place 1 Dreamscape Slumber tile. 
 
Draw and place 1 Dreamscape Slumber tile. 
 
If there is a free Quirk slot in the Dreamscape, 
 
If there is a free Quirk slot in the Dreamscape, 
 
place this card there. place this card there. 
Fate cards represent short interludes, small adventures or Fate cards represent short interludes, small adventures or 
events that you encounter across the Dreamworld. events that you encounter across the Dreamworld. 
When you enter a When you enter a 
  location, draw a  location, draw a FATEFATE card from the top  card from the top 
of the of the FATE DECKFATE DECK and resolve it. Each card contains all the rules  and resolve it. Each card contains all the rules 
needed to resolve it.needed to resolve it.
Sometimes a Sometimes a FATEFATE card will ask you to draw and place a  card will ask you to draw and place a Slum-Slum-
ber Dreamscape Mapber Dreamscape Map tile – these extend the existing Slumber  tile – these extend the existing Slumber 
Dreamscape (use the Map tile placement rules regarding code Dreamscape (use the Map tile placement rules regarding code 
alignment). After drawing a Map tile, if any Map tile on the board alignment). After drawing a Map tile, if any Map tile on the board 
has an empty has an empty Quirk spaceQuirk space, place this Fate card into that space , place this Fate card into that space 
(if there is more than 1 empty space, choose any of them).(if there is more than 1 empty space, choose any of them).
Otherwise, the Fate card is discarded to the bottom of the Fate deck.Otherwise, the Fate card is discarded to the bottom of the Fate deck.
FATE cards with Quirks on them (or Quirk cards)FATE cards with Quirks on them (or Quirk cards)  create  create 
opportunities for certain spaces on the Map or negative/positive opportunities for certain spaces on the Map or negative/positive 
effects for the whole Dreamscape (depending on the card). effects for the whole Dreamscape (depending on the card). 
PLAYING CARDS  
 IN THE DREAMWORLD
Most of the time, Influence cards and Items are used in Slum -Most of the time, Influence cards and Items are used in Slum -
bers and Dreams, not on the Dreamworld Map. However there are bers and Dreams, not on the Dreamworld Map. However there are 
exceptions  – some cards will have specific references to move-exceptions  – some cards will have specific references to move-
ment across the Dreamworld map or affect resolution of location ment across the Dreamworld map or affect resolution of location 
effects. effects. 
In order to use these cards however, you must have them In order to use these cards however, you must have them 
in your hand or as active Progress cards as there is no draw step in your hand or as active Progress cards as there is no draw step 
on the Dreamworld Map. This might be a good reason to end on the Dreamworld Map. This might be a good reason to end 
Slumbers/Dreams with them in your hand. Slumbers/Dreams with them in your hand. 
Other cards, while not specifically referencing the Dream -Other cards, while not specifically referencing the Dream -
world, can also be played if they have an immediate effect that world, can also be played if they have an immediate effect that 
is useful on the Dreamworld Map or when resolving a Fate card is useful on the Dreamworld Map or when resolving a Fate card 
(e.g.: for rerolls). If you can find a  use for an Influence card or (e.g.: for rerolls). If you can find a  use for an Influence card or 
an Item, you may use it on the Dreamworld Map.an Item, you may use it on the Dreamworld Map.
DELTA PHASE
DELTA PHASE
The current Dream cycle ends,  The current Dream cycle ends,  
and a new one begins...and a new one begins...
Now, resolve the Delta Phase Now, resolve the Delta Phase 
instead of a Slumber.instead of a Slumber.
1)1)  Each Dreamer may chooseEach Dreamer may choose 1 1 option: option:– Cure all their – Cure all their 
 ,,
– Unseal all their cards,– Unseal all their cards,
– Unflip all their Progress cards,– Unflip all their Progress cards,
– Reshuffle their Influence deck,– Reshuffle their Influence deck,
– Restore their Mask.– Restore their Mask.
2)2)  Reset Hours to your limit, depending  Reset Hours to your limit, depending  
on the number of players: on the number of players: 
 1 1  player – player – 5 5 Hours, Hours,
 2 2  players – players – 4 4 Hours, Hours,
 3 3  players – players – 3 3 Hours, Hours,
 4 4  players – players – 2 2 Hours, Hours,
 5 5  players – players – 1 1 Hour. Hour.
3)3)  Shuffle the Slumber Deck and place  Shuffle the Slumber Deck and place  
the Delta Phase tile at the bottom.the Delta Phase tile at the bottom.
Keep on moving down this endless road, Keep on moving down this endless road, 
but take a detour sometime to visit dreams but take a detour sometime to visit dreams 
shrouded in mists of your desires and memories.shrouded in mists of your desires and memories.
Eventually you will encounter the last Eventually you will encounter the last GREEN-COLORED GREEN-COLORED 
SLUMBER TILESLUMBER TILE. This is the . This is the DELTA PHASEDELTA PHASE and it gives all the  and it gives all the 
Dreamers a little respite as they enter deeper into the Dreamers a little respite as they enter deeper into the DREAM-DREAM-
WORLDWORLD. . 
When this card is resolved Dreamers may:When this card is resolved Dreamers may:
  –– Cure all their Cure all their 
  –– Unseal all their cardsUnseal all their cards
  –– Unflip all their Progress cardsUnflip all their Progress cards
  –– Reshuffle their Influence deckReshuffle their Influence deck
  –– Restore their MaskRestore their Mask
Hours are reset according to the number of players – 1/2/3/4/5 Hours are reset according to the number of players – 1/2/3/4/5 
Players – Players – 55//44//33//22//11 Hours respectively. Hours respectively.
Afterward, all of the other Afterward, all of the other DISCARDED SLUMBER TILESDISCARDED SLUMBER TILES are  are 
reshuffled and placed on reshuffled and placed on toptop of this tile again to begin the cycle anew. of this tile again to begin the cycle anew.
Remember that the Slumber Dreamscape Map remains unchanged.Remember that the Slumber Dreamscape Map remains unchanged.
SHOPPING
If you manage to make your way to a If you manage to make your way to a SHOPPING LOCATIONSHOPPING LOCATION  
you may use your you may use your SHOPPING CARDSHOPPING CARD  ( ( 11-41C11-41C) to allow each ) to allow each 
Dreamer to choose one of the following:Dreamer to choose one of the following:
Buy Influence CardsBuy Influence Cards – Draw  – Draw 33 cards from the  cards from the INFLU-INFLU-
ENCE MARKET DECKENCE MARKET DECK and buy as many of these as they want  and buy as many of these as they want 
by paying the by paying the 
   COSTCOST in the top right of the card. Place these  in the top right of the card. Place these 
cards to your personal discard pile. Any unbought cards are cards to your personal discard pile. Any unbought cards are 
placed at the bottom of the Market deck. placed at the bottom of the Market deck. 
OROR
Buy Buy 11 Item Item – Draw a random item from the  – Draw a random item from the ITEM MARKETITEM MARKET  
and gain it for and gain it for 22  
  placing it in an  placing it in an ACTIVE ITEMACTIVE ITEM slot (discard- slot (discard-
ing one if full).ing one if full).
If you don’t buy any cards or items gain If you don’t buy any cards or items gain 11  
 . Return the Shop-. Return the Shop-
ping card back to the ping card back to the SECRETSSECRETS afterward. Usually you will have  afterward. Usually you will have 
the opportunity to gain these back by finishing Dreams. the opportunity to gain these back by finishing Dreams. 
NOTE CARDS
Note cards are usually one-use cards which can be used Note cards are usually one-use cards which can be used 
in a specific situation or in a particular Dream. The instructions in a specific situation or in a particular Dream. The instructions 
on how to use them are found on their back and front sides.on how to use them are found on their back and front sides.
All Note cards gained during the game are kept in the Storage All Note cards gained during the game are kept in the Storage 
and can be used by any Dreamer.and can be used by any Dreamer.
FLAW CARDS
DiscardDiscard  11
   to remove this card 
 
to remove this card 
 
OR resolve it immediately.OR resolve it immediately.
Place this card  Place this card  
in your Progress zone.in your Progress zone.
JELLY LEGS
Is the ground turning into mud,  Is the ground turning into mud,  
or are my legs turning into pudding?or are my legs turning into pudding?
Your Move actions costYour Move actions cost
  11
  more  more 
for each space.for each space.
44
 : discard this card.: discard this card.
DiscardDiscard  11
   to remove this card 
 
to remove this card 
 OR resolve it immediately.OR resolve it immediately.
NUMBING FEAR
I'll come out in a moment,  I'll come out in a moment,  
just give me a little more time.just give me a little more time.
You cannot use You cannot use 
     from your Influence cards this Turn. from your Influence cards this Turn. 
Discard this card at the end of the Turn.Discard this card at the end of the Turn.
When the game instructs you to gain a When the game instructs you to gain a FLAW CARDFLAW CARD, draw one , draw one 
from the from the FLAW DECKFLAW DECK and put it on the top of your Discard pile.  and put it on the top of your Discard pile. 
These are negative effect cards that clutter your Influence deck.These are negative effect cards that clutter your Influence deck.
Whenever you draw a Flaw card from your Influence deck, you Whenever you draw a Flaw card from your Influence deck, you 
must resolve it immediately. Depending on the Flaw card, some must resolve it immediately. Depending on the Flaw card, some 
will be placed into your Discard pile afterward or into your Prog-will be placed into your Discard pile afterward or into your Prog-
ress Zone (applying a persistent negative effect) – these are not ress Zone (applying a persistent negative effect) – these are not 
counted toward the active Progress card limit.counted toward the active Progress card limit.
Most Flaw cards can be removed from your deck for a  price Most Flaw cards can be removed from your deck for a  price 
(generally (generally 11  
 ) after which it is returned to the bottom of the ) after which it is returned to the bottom of the 
Flaw deck.Flaw deck.
Remember that Flaw cards are omitted when having to Seal Remember that Flaw cards are omitted when having to Seal 
cards and are then placed back on top of your Influence deck (see cards and are then placed back on top of your Influence deck (see 
Sealing CardsSealing Cards, pg 8)., pg 8).
During the deckbuilding step, you must add all your Flaw cards During the deckbuilding step, you must add all your Flaw cards 
to it (they do not count toward the to it (they do not count toward the 2020--4040 limit). limit).
OVERLAY CARDS
The Overlay cards are Secret cards which contain parts of the The Overlay cards are Secret cards which contain parts of the 
Dream Map. Dream Map. These cards should be immediately placed on the These cards should be immediately placed on the 
Dreamscape when revealedDreamscape when revealed, in the way that allows them to fit , in the way that allows them to fit 
correctly onto the current Dreamscape Map and the Dream board correctly onto the current Dreamscape Map and the Dream board 
grid (there is actually only one correct way of placing such cards).grid (there is actually only one correct way of placing such cards).
Each Overlay card changes the Dreamscape in some way, some-Each Overlay card changes the Dreamscape in some way, some-
times they will even add a new part to it. When an Overlay card is times they will even add a new part to it. When an Overlay card is 
placed in the Dreamscape, it cannot be removed unless the game placed in the Dreamscape, it cannot be removed unless the game 
specifically allows you to do so.specifically allows you to do so.
When you should place an Overlay card, any miniature/token/When you should place an Overlay card, any miniature/token/
marker occupying its dedicated spot is placed on the top of the marker occupying its dedicated spot is placed on the top of the 
Overlay card in the same (albeit changed) place.Overlay card in the same (albeit changed) place.
Note: Overlay cards must be placed very precisely. Most of the time, they Note: Overlay cards must be placed very precisely. Most of the time, they 
are not simply oriented horizontally or vertically and must be rotated in are not simply oriented horizontally or vertically and must be rotated in 
some way.some way.
I THINK OUR WORLD IS GETTING 
MORE AND MORE OUT OF TUNE.
1515