COMPONENTS
COMPONENTS
16 Ether markers16 Ether markers
Used to mark acquired Ether – experience gained Used to mark acquired Ether – experience gained 
by the Dreamers. Ether is spent to improve Dreamers, by the Dreamers. Ether is spent to improve Dreamers, 
buy new Influence cards, etc.buy new Influence cards, etc.
Ether is represented by Ether is represented by 
  in rules. in rules.
16 Distress markers16 Distress markers
Used to mark the distress, fear, fatigue, doubts, and wounds Used to mark the distress, fear, fatigue, doubts, and wounds 
of the Dreamers.of the Dreamers.
Distress is represented by Distress is represented by 
  in rules. in rules.
16 Universal markers16 Universal markers
Universal markers have many different uses that are Universal markers have many different uses that are 
defined by cards and rulesdefined by cards and rules
Universal markers are represented by Universal markers are represented by 
  in rules. in rules.
6 Shining Gems6 Shining Gems
Precious gems that Dreamers may use during specific actions. Precious gems that Dreamers may use during specific actions. 
Their significance expands during the campaign.Their significance expands during the campaign.
Shining Gems are represented by Shining Gems are represented by 
  in rules. in rules.
Entity Movement dieEntity Movement die Luck dieLuck die
20 Threat tokens20 Threat tokens
These are generic tokens that have many different uses These are generic tokens that have many different uses 
defined by cards and rules. They mostly represent dangers defined by cards and rules. They mostly represent dangers 
or challenges. These tokens have two different sides.or challenges. These tokens have two different sides.
Threat tokens are represented by Threat tokens are represented by 
  in rules. in rules.
6 Block tokens6 Block tokens
Block tokens are represented by Block tokens are represented by 
  in rules. in rules.
12 Morphing tokens12 Morphing tokens
8 Terrain tokens8 Terrain tokens
4 Key tokens4 Key tokens
  
12 Intent markers 12 Intent markers (4 of each color)(4 of each color)
5 Spirit tokens5 Spirit tokens
4 Dreamer Personal tokens4 Dreamer Personal tokens
Take these out if the game instructs you to use them.Take these out if the game instructs you to use them.
10 Story tokens10 Story tokens
If the game doesn’t ask you to use  If the game doesn’t ask you to use  
a particular Story token, use any of them.a particular Story token, use any of them.
4 State tokens4 State tokens
77 Sign tokens77 Sign tokens
Leave these in the box until you discover  Leave these in the box until you discover  
their meaning and rules on a card!their meaning and rules on a card!
Hour CounterHour Counter
Hole tokenHole token
2 Dream Gate  2 Dream Gate  
tiles envelopestiles envelopes
Wisdom card holders Wisdom card holders 
and 2 Dreamworld and 2 Dreamworld 
Map tile holdersMap tile holders
15 Entity tokens15 Entity tokens
6 Blank tokens6 Blank tokens
Secret Scripts Secret Scripts 
bookbook
Wall / Clock Hand  Wall / Clock Hand  
tokentoken
Waste BagWaste Bag
When the game asks you When the game asks you 
to remove a token from the to remove a token from the 
game, put it in the Waste game, put it in the Waste 
Bag – it won’t be used in Bag – it won’t be used in 
the game anymore.the game anymore.
STOP! BEFORE YOU BEGIN...
The large quantity of cards, tiles, tokens and other things in the box can be a little intimidating The large quantity of cards, tiles, tokens and other things in the box can be a little intimidating 
at first. This section will help you sort everything before your first game.at first. This section will help you sort everything before your first game.
CARDS
1] 1] Put the 4 card packs labelled “Do not open this deck” at one end of the card tray without open-Put the 4 card packs labelled “Do not open this deck” at one end of the card tray without open-
ing them.ing them.
2] 2] Unwrap the remaining card packs but Unwrap the remaining card packs but keep them in orderkeep them in order! ! 
The vast majority of these are The vast majority of these are SECRET CARDSSECRET CARDS and can be identi- and can be identi-
fied by the card IDs in the top right corner on their backs. The card fied by the card IDs in the top right corner on their backs. The card 
IDs start with a IDs start with a Roman NumeralRoman Numeral  ( ( either I or IIeither I or II ) followed by ) followed by 
a a numbernumber and sometimes a  and sometimes a letterletter..
The Roman Numeral explains which campaign the card is from.The Roman Numeral explains which campaign the card is from.
The Number places cards into smaller groups (i.e. all cards from a single Dream).The Number places cards into smaller groups (i.e. all cards from a single Dream).
Lastly, each card (or multiple cards of the same type) will have one corresponding letter.Lastly, each card (or multiple cards of the same type) will have one corresponding letter.
3] 3] Organize these in order (you should find these mostly in the correct order when you unwrap Organize these in order (you should find these mostly in the correct order when you unwrap 
them) and place them in the main long well of the core box. These cards will therefore be arranged them) and place them in the main long well of the core box. These cards will therefore be arranged 
like this:like this:
I-01 A, I-01 B, I-01 C, ... I-02 A, I-02 B(x4), .... II-23 AI-01 A, I-01 B, I-01 C, ... I-02 A, I-02 B(x4), .... II-23 A and so on. and so on.
Don’t panic if some cards seem to be missing – this is deliberate. A full list of of cards can be found at Don’t panic if some cards seem to be missing – this is deliberate. A full list of of cards can be found at 
https:/ /www.etherfields-secrets.com/forum/official-faq/list-of-all-secret-cards-and-tiles.https:/ /www.etherfields-secrets.com/forum/official-faq/list-of-all-secret-cards-and-tiles.  
The rest of the cards do not have IDs on their card backs. They are starting cards. They can be packed with The rest of the cards do not have IDs on their card backs. They are starting cards. They can be packed with 
their corresponding divider (see previous page):their corresponding divider (see previous page):
The four  The four  
Dreamer Influence Decks.Dreamer Influence Decks.
Place a Basic Action card aid  Place a Basic Action card aid  
with each deck.with each deck.
5 Starting Item cards5 Starting Item cards
10 Fate cards10 Fate cards
12 Turn cards12 Turn cards
81 Starting Influence 81 Starting Influence 
Market cardsMarket cards
6 Flaw cards6 Flaw cards
CARDS VS TILES
Unwrap the larger square cards and just like sorting the secret cards above, put them all in the larg-Unwrap the larger square cards and just like sorting the secret cards above, put them all in the larg-
er storage well in the box. From now on, the larger square cards will be referred to as er storage well in the box. From now on, the larger square cards will be referred to as TILESTILES, while , while 
standard sized cards will be called standard sized cards will be called CARDSCARDS..
OTHER COMPONENTS
Unpunch all other components and sort them according to the section on the left. Be careful not Unpunch all other components and sort them according to the section on the left. Be careful not 
to discard the blank tokens. The rest of the dividers can be put aside for now (a complete reference to discard the blank tokens. The rest of the dividers can be put aside for now (a complete reference 
for this can be found on page 16).for this can be found on page 16).
33