DREAMSCAPE PHASE
And if you gaze long enough into an abyss,  
the abyss will gaze back into you. 
 – Friedrich Nietzche
ENTITIESENTITIES are the boogiemen and ethereal beings that wan - are the boogiemen and ethereal beings that wan -
der the dream world. They are represented on the Dreamscape der the dream world. They are represented on the Dreamscape 
and Slumber maps by their relevant miniature(s) or token(s). and Slumber maps by their relevant miniature(s) or token(s). 
They act after the Dreamers have passed in the They act after the Dreamers have passed in the DREAMSCAPE DREAMSCAPE 
PHASEPHASE and  their actions are determined by what is displayed  and  their actions are determined by what is displayed 
on the on the Turn CardsTurn Cards and the  and the Entity Tile(s)Entity Tile(s). . 
Begin the Dreamscape Phase by examining the current Begin the Dreamscape Phase by examining the current face-up face-up 
Turn Card.Turn Card.
TURN CARDS
Turn cardsTurn cards  serve two functions: both to count the Turns  serve two functions: both to count the Turns 
in Slumbers/Dreams and also to indicate how in Slumbers/Dreams and also to indicate how EntitiesEntities and the  and the 
ever-changing Dreamscapes of Slumbers and Dreams behave and ever-changing Dreamscapes of Slumbers and Dreams behave and 
respond. respond. 
COUNTING TURNS
At the beginning of every Slumber/Dream, shuffle the speci -At the beginning of every Slumber/Dream, shuffle the speci -
fied number of Turn cards and randomly place them face-up on fied number of Turn cards and randomly place them face-up on 
the Turn deck slot. Turns can be found on the top righthand cor-the Turn deck slot. Turns can be found on the top righthand cor-
ner of Slumber Tiles and Dream tiles. Place the remaining Turn ner of Slumber Tiles and Dream tiles. Place the remaining Turn 
cards face-down in the Turn discard pile.cards face-down in the Turn discard pile.
The topmost card – the “current Turn card” – should be the The topmost card – the “current Turn card” – should be the 
only visible card and, at the end of each Turn (after going through only visible card and, at the end of each Turn (after going through 
all its effects – see below), this is discarded and a new one re-all its effects – see below), this is discarded and a new one re-
vealed for the next Turn. When you run out of Turn cards, the vealed for the next Turn. When you run out of Turn cards, the 
Slumber/Dream ends – resolve the Out of Turns effects described Slumber/Dream ends – resolve the Out of Turns effects described 
on the on the Slumber/Dream Gate tileSlumber/Dream Gate tile..
Morphing EffectMorphing Effect – Makes the Entity stronger  – Makes the Entity stronger 
(see (see MORPHINGSMORPHINGS, pg 13)., pg 13).
Basic EffectBasic Effect – A lesser negative effect. – A lesser negative effect.
Special EffectSpecial Effect – A stronger negative effect. – A stronger negative effect.
Turn card effectsTurn card effects
ENTITY & DREAM/SLUMBER EFFECTS
At the beginning of the Dreamscape Phase, each step on the At the beginning of the Dreamscape Phase, each step on the 
current Turn card is resolved from current Turn card is resolved from top to bottomtop to bottom. These steps . These steps 
consist of consist of 3 main effects3 main effects (shown below) and an  (shown below) and an Entity Move-Entity Move-
ment stepment step  
 . . 
For example, if BASIC EFFECT For example, if BASIC EFFECT 
   
shows on the TURN CARD, this particular shows on the TURN CARD, this particular 
ENTITY would cause Dreamers within ENTITY would cause Dreamers within 11  
range to suffer range to suffer 11  
 . Likewise SPECIAL EF-. Likewise SPECIAL EF-
FECT FECT 
  would cause Dreamers within  would cause Dreamers within 22  
range to SEAL range to SEAL 22 cards. cards.
All of these effects are usually found on the All of these effects are usually found on the ENTITY TILEENTITY TILE but  but 
can also be found on other Secret cards depending on the Dream/can also be found on other Secret cards depending on the Dream/
Slumber. Slumber. 
If a Turn card specifies an effect but there are no game ele-If a Turn card specifies an effect but there are no game ele-
ments where it is featured then skip that effect. ments where it is featured then skip that effect. 
You may find that this is the case for the first half of the First You may find that this is the case for the first half of the First 
Dream.Dream.
When several effects are supposed to happen during the same When several effects are supposed to happen during the same 
step, resolve them in any order, but consider that they all happen step, resolve them in any order, but consider that they all happen 
simultaneously.  simultaneously.  
If the game instructs you to do something at the end of the If the game instructs you to do something at the end of the 
Turn, do it after resolving all steps.Turn, do it after resolving all steps.
OTHER TURN CARD RULES
BLOCKING STEPS / ADDING TURNS BLOCKING STEPS / ADDING TURNS 
When the game asks you to “When the game asks you to “ Block 1 step of the current Block 1 step of the current 
Turn cardTurn card” , choose and mark one of the steps with a ” , choose and mark one of the steps with a 
 . This . This 
step is skipped when resolving the Turn Card.step is skipped when resolving the Turn Card.
When the game asks you to “When the game asks you to “ Add 1 TurnAdd 1 Turn , ” take the bottom , ” take the bottom 
card of the Turn discard pile and place it at the bottom of the card of the Turn discard pile and place it at the bottom of the 
Turn deck.Turn deck.
TURN CARD SUITS (TURN CARD SUITS (
 , , 
 , , 
 , , 
 ).).
Each Turn card bears the symbol of one of the four Turn Suits. Each Turn card bears the symbol of one of the four Turn Suits. 
They don’t have any effect unless another card or rule directly They don’t have any effect unless another card or rule directly 
addresses them.addresses them.
LOOTLOOT
Each Turn card has a separate Loot section. Resolve it whenev-Each Turn card has a separate Loot section. Resolve it whenev-
er the game asks you to gain Loot – generally when you achieve er the game asks you to gain Loot – generally when you achieve 
a a VictoryVictory during a  during a  SLUMBERSLUMBER. When gaining Loot, you always . When gaining Loot, you always 
gain the Loot of the current Turn card. gain the Loot of the current Turn card. 
Sometimes, you may have to choose between different Loot op-Sometimes, you may have to choose between different Loot op-
tions, like 1 shared reward for the Team or smaller ones for each tions, like 1 shared reward for the Team or smaller ones for each 
Dreamer.Dreamer.
Whenever a Slumber tile asks to gain Loot after the last Turn Whenever a Slumber tile asks to gain Loot after the last Turn 
card has been discarded, consider the Loot from this last discard-card has been discarded, consider the Loot from this last discard-
ed Turn card.ed Turn card.
ENTITY MOVEMENT 
EntitiesEntities will Move during the  will Move during the 
  step on Turn cards during  step on Turn cards during 
the Dreamscape Phase. Each Entity has its own the Dreamscape Phase. Each Entity has its own Movement val-Movement val-
ueue, indicated on the Entity tile. During this step, roll the Entity , indicated on the Entity tile. During this step, roll the Entity 
Movement die*:Movement die*:
The Entity Moves The Entity Moves 11 space only. space only.
The Entity Moves by the number of spaces indicated by its The Entity Moves by the number of spaces indicated by its 
movement value.movement value.
The Entity Moves by its Movement value, then roll again The Entity Moves by its Movement value, then roll again 
and resolve the new roll.and resolve the new roll.
Entities always Move toward the closest Dreamer unless stated Entities always Move toward the closest Dreamer unless stated 
otherwise in their Movement special rules. If several Dreamers are otherwise in their Movement special rules. If several Dreamers are 
in the same range, Players decide how the Entity will Moves. If it is in the same range, Players decide how the Entity will Moves. If it is 
in a space with a Dreamer already and performs a Movement or it in a space with a Dreamer already and performs a Movement or it 
does not have a legal path to its target, it does not Move. When an does not have a legal path to its target, it does not Move. When an 
Entity enters the targeted Dreamer’s space, it stops its Move. Entity enters the targeted Dreamer’s space, it stops its Move. 
Entities also do not use Map Actions in any way (so they won’t Entities also do not use Map Actions in any way (so they won’t 
follow you through shortcuts, etc.).follow you through shortcuts, etc.).
* Movement should be rolled separately for each Entity. However, you may * Movement should be rolled separately for each Entity. However, you may 
decide to roll only once for all Entities with all of them using the result of this decide to roll only once for all Entities with all of them using the result of this 
roll. You can change this preference based on your group and experiences.roll. You can change this preference based on your group and experiences.
The Entity ignores the Movement die. It's often followed with The Entity ignores the Movement die. It's often followed with 
an additional set of rules concerning the specific Entity.an additional set of rules concerning the specific Entity.
ENTITY TILES
There are two types of Entity Tiles: those that can be found in There are two types of Entity Tiles: those that can be found in DREAMSDREAMS and those found in  and those found in SLUMBERSSLUMBERS. There are minor differ-. There are minor differ-
ences between the two and ences between the two and SLUMBERSLUMBER  ENTITY TILESENTITY TILES will be covered later under the  will be covered later under the SLUMBERSSLUMBERS section. section.
SETUP:SETUP: Begin with the Setup section in the upper right  Begin with the Setup section in the upper right 
corner. This may sometimes prepare a certain number of Turn corner. This may sometimes prepare a certain number of Turn 
cards, Spawn Entity tokens/miniatures and complete any addi -cards, Spawn Entity tokens/miniatures and complete any addi -
tional Setup steps.tional Setup steps.
(For more about Spawning, see ENTITY SPAWNING, pg 6).(For more about Spawning, see ENTITY SPAWNING, pg 6).
ENTITY MODELS:ENTITY MODELS: Models placed by the Dreamers (from  Models placed by the Dreamers (from 
Influence cards, Note cards) are Influence cards, Note cards) are NOTNOT considered to be Entities.  considered to be Entities. 
unless stated otherwise by the game.unless stated otherwise by the game.
INTERACTIONS:INTERACTIONS: Interactions are actions you can perform  Interactions are actions you can perform 
with (or against) the Entity. If you are within the required range with (or against) the Entity. If you are within the required range 
from the Entity, you can perform that action. As a reminder As-from the Entity, you can perform that action. As a reminder As-
sault/Contact actions have a base range of sault/Contact actions have a base range of 11..
ENTITY EFFECTS:ENTITY EFFECTS: See left –  See left – ENTITY & DREAM/SLUM-ENTITY & DREAM/SLUM-
BER EFFECTSBER EFFECTS
Note:  “If Dreamer is in range Note:  “If Dreamer is in range XX” , means within range ” , means within range XX of any of that En- of any of that En-
tity’s tokens/miniatures. Being in range of more than one token/miniature of tity’s tokens/miniatures. Being in range of more than one token/miniature of 
that Entity has no further effect – you are only affected by them once (unless that Entity has no further effect – you are only affected by them once (unless 
the tile specifies that the effect scales with the number of Entities in range).the tile specifies that the effect scales with the number of Entities in range).
Entity  Entity  
InteractionsInteractions
Entity  Entity  
EffectsEffects
Movement Movement 
valuevalue
SetupSetup
1212