Examples of Map Actions. Examples of Map Actions. 
BASIC RULES
FLOW OF THE GAME
Throughout the course of the campaign, players explore a variety of Dreams and their Dreamscapes in order to unravel their purpose and identity. These are Throughout the course of the campaign, players explore a variety of Dreams and their Dreamscapes in order to unravel their purpose and identity. These are 
longer, unique expanded adventures that feature a variety of environments and storylines. In between these Dreams, they travel across the Dreamworld map longer, unique expanded adventures that feature a variety of environments and storylines. In between these Dreams, they travel across the Dreamworld map 
and encounter Slumbers – shorter mini-encounters – that expose them to the denizens and creatures that inhabit this world.and encounter Slumbers – shorter mini-encounters – that expose them to the denizens and creatures that inhabit this world.
DREAM GATE TILES
“Ever have that feeling where you’re not sure 
if you’re awake or dreaming?” 
 – Neo, The Matrix
Dream Gates are used to enter Dreams. Usually they will have Dream Gates are used to enter Dreams. Usually they will have 
a specific District on the Dreamworld map where you can enter a specific District on the Dreamworld map where you can enter 
them (see them (see DREAMWORLD MAPDREAMWORLD MAP, pg 14) and also a listed key , pg 14) and also a listed key 
requirement to do so. requirement to do so. For the First Dream you can ignore those For the First Dream you can ignore those 
requirements. requirements. Dreams can be stored in between each game ses-Dreams can be stored in between each game ses-
sion in the envelope provided. sion in the envelope provided. 
To enter a Dream resolve the following:To enter a Dream resolve the following:
  –– If the Slumber Dreamscape is present, discard it first (i.e.: If the Slumber Dreamscape is present, discard it first (i.e.: 
all Slumber Map tiles, Quirk cards, etc.). all Slumber Map tiles, Quirk cards, etc.). 
There is no Slumber Map currently so you can ignore this for now.There is no Slumber Map currently so you can ignore this for now.
  –– SetupSetup: Resolve all the listed steps here prior to beginning : Resolve all the listed steps here prior to beginning 
the Dream. Generally this will require you to prepare by taking the Dream. Generally this will require you to prepare by taking 
all the appropriate cards out of the box and placing them within all the appropriate cards out of the box and placing them within 
reach and also by setting up its starting Dreamscape Map Tiles. reach and also by setting up its starting Dreamscape Map Tiles. 
Remember! Never look at the front side of any Secret Remember! Never look at the front side of any Secret 
Card or Tile unless instructed to  reveal, peek or gain it.Card or Tile unless instructed to  reveal, peek or gain it.
  –– Turn DeckTurn Deck: Randomly draw the listed number of Turn : Randomly draw the listed number of Turn 
cards and place them face-up in the Turn deck slot. This de-cards and place them face-up in the Turn deck slot. This de-
termines how much time you have to complete the Dream (see termines how much time you have to complete the Dream (see 
TURN CARDSTURN CARDS, pg 12). The rest are discarded face-down to the , pg 12). The rest are discarded face-down to the 
Turn Discard Pile. Turn Discard Pile. 
  –– IntroductionIntroduction: Read this reference within the Secret : Read this reference within the Secret 
Scripts booklet for this specific Dream after you have set up the Scripts booklet for this specific Dream after you have set up the 
Dream. Dream. 
  –– Then Then flipflip the Dream Gate tile to its other side and place it  the Dream Gate tile to its other side and place it 
on the Dream Gate slot. Any special rules are listed here along on the Dream Gate slot. Any special rules are listed here along 
with the GOAL of the Dream and also the script number to re-with the GOAL of the Dream and also the script number to re-
solve if you run Out of Turns. solve if you run Out of Turns. 
  –– Finally the Dreamers enter the Dreamscape and the first Finally the Dreamers enter the Dreamscape and the first 
Turn begins…Turn begins…
THE DREAMSCAPE MAP
Ignorance, that blind old fool who steers a wayward path, has set the course on which we sail 
into a night of uncertainty
 – Dead Can Dance, In the Wake of Adversity
While in Dreams or Slumbers, the game takes place on the Dreamscape, which consists of Map tiles that represent what the Dreamers While in Dreams or Slumbers, the game takes place on the Dreamscape, which consists of Map tiles that represent what the Dreamers 
experience within the Dream or Slumber. Miniatures are used to represent the Dreamers and the Entities they encounter. Each map tile is experience within the Dream or Slumber. Miniatures are used to represent the Dreamers and the Entities they encounter. Each map tile is 
divided into 4 spaces. When a map tile is revealed, turn it face-up and align the tile’s code with the corresponding code on the game board divided into 4 spaces. When a map tile is revealed, turn it face-up and align the tile’s code with the corresponding code on the game board 
on the on the DREAMSCAPE MAPDREAMSCAPE MAP area (upper portion of the game board).  area (upper portion of the game board). 
Note that Map tiles or cards do not always occupy a whole Map tile slot. Sometimes a tile may overlap two slots, lying partly on both Note that Map tiles or cards do not always occupy a whole Map tile slot. Sometimes a tile may overlap two slots, lying partly on both 
or a card may be placed at an angle. In such a case, it is important to check the code of the tile is (A1, B2, etc) is aligned with the code on the or a card may be placed at an angle. In such a case, it is important to check the code of the tile is (A1, B2, etc) is aligned with the code on the 
game board and the grid lines match up.game board and the grid lines match up.
If this is your first game, the Dream Gate tile has instructed you to reveal only the Setup tile (Tile 1-01 SETUP). Turn it over and place If this is your first game, the Dream Gate tile has instructed you to reveal only the Setup tile (Tile 1-01 SETUP). Turn it over and place 
it over the top of the A2 Dreamscape (upper) location on the main boardit over the top of the A2 Dreamscape (upper) location on the main board
DREAMER'S ENTRANCE
Dreamers will always enter the Dreamscape on the Dreamer’s Dreamers will always enter the Dreamscape on the Dreamer’s 
Entrance Entrance 
 . This icon is placed between 2 spaces. It means that . This icon is placed between 2 spaces. It means that 
it refers to both of them. Place your miniatures on either of these it refers to both of them. Place your miniatures on either of these 
spaces. spaces. Place your dreamers in either of the 2 available spaces on Place your dreamers in either of the 2 available spaces on 
the A2 Tile.the A2 Tile.
MAP ACTIONS
Map actions are those that can be found on Map tiles. Those Map actions are those that can be found on Map tiles. Those 
with the with the 
  symbol are single use only.  After using the action,  symbol are single use only.  After using the action, 
block it with a block it with a 
  token (see  token (see DREAMER ACTIONSDREAMER ACTIONS, pg 9 for , pg 9 for 
more details about performing actions).more details about performing actions).
WALLS 
There is also a wall close-by – this is an impassable barrier that you There is also a wall close-by – this is an impassable barrier that you 
can’t move through or measure Range through (see can’t move through or measure Range through (see MOVEMENT MOVEMENT 
ACTIONSACTIONS, pg 11 for more detail)., pg 11 for more detail).
ENTITY SPAWN
There is no Entity present at the moment so you don’t need There is no Entity present at the moment so you don’t need 
to worry about this just yet but keep these rules in the back of to worry about this just yet but keep these rules in the back of 
your mind.your mind.
Spawned Entities (see Spawned Entities (see ENTITYENTITY, pg 12) always appear in spac -, pg 12) always appear in spac -
es bearing the es bearing the 
  icon. If several  icon. If several 
  spaces are available, you  spaces are available, you 
can choose between them. When spawning several Entities, if can choose between them. When spawning several Entities, if 
there is more than one there is more than one 
  space available allocate them as even- space available allocate them as even-
ly as possible. ly as possible. 
//
 //
 //
In the Dreamscape, if there is any In the Dreamscape, if there is any 
  space with a  space with a TURN TURN 
SUITSUIT icon, check to see if it corresponds to the current Turn Suit  icon, check to see if it corresponds to the current Turn Suit 
on the current Turn card. If it does, the first Spawned Entity must on the current Turn card. If it does, the first Spawned Entity must 
be placed in that corresponding be placed in that corresponding 
  space. space.
HELLO? 
IS THERE ANYBODY
OUT THERE?
THIS TUNNEL 
MUST END SOMEWHERE!
SetupSetup
IntroductionIntroduction
Number of Number of 
Turn cardsTurn cards
DreamworldDreamworld
Map LocationMap Location
Secret tile codeSecret tile code
Dreamer's EntranceDreamer's Entrance
Entity SpawnEntity Spawn
Keys CostKeys Cost
66